5 July 2022 To To Corporate Relations Department Corporate Listing Department.
BSE Limited National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
Report along with Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for FY2022
This is further to our letter dated 28 April 2022, wherein the Company had informed that the AGM of the Company is scheduled to be held on Thursday, 28 July 2022.
following documents for FY2022, as circulated to the shareholders through electronic mode:
12:15 p.m. IST through Video Conferencing/ Other Audio-Visual Means (‘e-AGM’);
 Annual Report for FY2022; and  Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report for FY2022 (‘BRSR’).
website of the e-Voting service provider viz., KFin Technologies Limited at https://evoting.kfintech.com.
Kindly take the same on record.
Encl: As above Page 1 of 1

BAJAJ FINSERV LIMITED (CIN: L65923PN2007PLC130075)
Registered Office:
Tel No.: (020) 7157 6064 NOTICE OF 15TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Notice is hereby given that the 15th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the members of Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
(‘BFS’ or the ‘Company’) will be held on Thursday, 28 July 2022 at 12:15 p.m. IST through Video Conferencing (‘VC’)/Other Audio-Visual Means (‘OAVM’) (hereinafter referred to as e-AGM) to transact the following:
ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1. To consider and adopt the standalone and consolidated financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 31 March 2022, together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To declare a dividend of ₹ 4 per equity share of face value of ₹ 5 for the financial year ended 31 March 2022.
rotation in terms of section 152(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 and, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4. Appointment of Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, (Firm Registration Number: 105146W/ W100621) as a Statutory Auditor and to fix their remuneration.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:
financial year ending 31 March 2023, 31 March 2024, 31 March 2025 and 31 March 2026 respectively, at a remuneration mentioned in the statement annexed herewith.

SPECIAL BUSINESS:
5. Ratification of remuneration payable to Dhananjay V Joshi & Associates, Cost Auditor (Firm Registration Number: 000030) for FY2023.
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:
By order of the Board For Bajaj Finserv Ltd.

NOTES
1. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) vide its various circulars issued from time to time have permitted the holding of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) through VC/OAVM till 31 December 2022.
Accordingly, the 15th AGM is being conducted through VC/OAVM, hereinafter called as ‘e-AGM’.
2022, the listed companies may send the notice of e-AGM and the annual report, including financial statements, boards’ report, etc. by electronic mode in case the meeting is conducted through VC/OAVM.
Exchange of India Ltd. (‘NSE’) at www.nseindia.com and on the website of KFin Technologies Ltd. (‘KFin’) at https://evoting.kfintech.com. In this Notice, the term member(s) or shareholder(s) are used interchangeably.
3. The deemed venue for the 15th e-AGM shall be the Registered Office of the Company at Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Complex, Mumbai-Pune Road, Pune - 411 035.
dispensed with. Accordingly, the facility for appointment of proxies by the members will not be available for the e-AGM. Hence, the Proxy Form and Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice.
a scanned copy (pdf/jpg format) of its board or governing body’s resolution/authorisation, etc., authorising their representative to attend the e-AGM on its behalf and to vote through remote e-voting.
The said resolution/authorisation shall be sent to the scrutiniser by email through its registered email address to cssdlimaye@gmail.com with a copy marked to mohsin.mohd@kfintech.com.
6. Statement pursuant to section 102 of the Act forms a part of this Notice. The Board of Directors, having deemed it as unavoidable, proposes to seek approval of members for business stated at Item No.5.
hereto. Details as per regulation 36(5) of the Listing Regulations in respect of re-appointment of statutory auditors is also annexed.
8. The facility of joining the e-AGM through VC/OAVM will be opened 30 minutes before and will remain open up to 30 minutes after the scheduled start time of the e-AGM, i.e., from 11:45 a.m. to 12:45 p.m.
apply to participation of shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding, promoters, institutional investors, directors, key managerial personnel, auditors, etc.
9. Institutional investors, who are members of the Company are encouraged to attend and vote at the 15th e-AGM of the Company.
10. The Board of Directors, at its meeting held on 28 April 2022, has recommended dividend of ₹ 4 per equity share of the face value of ₹ 5 for FY2022 for the approval of members at the 15th e-AGM.

will be credited/dispatched on Monday, 1 August 2022, and/or Tuesday, 2 August 2022:
provided to the Company by National Securities Depository Ltd. ('NSDL') and Central Depository Services (India) Ltd. ('CDSL'), as of the end of the day on Friday, 1 July 2022.
be paid through electronic mode, payment will be made through physical instrument such as banker’s cheque or demand draft incorporating bank account details of such members.
bank account, if any, by duly filled ISR-1 to KFin in case of physical holding or in case of demat holding to their respective depository participants (‘DPs’).
entertained only upon registration of the PAN, KYC details, and nomination. The folios wherein any one of the said document/details are not updated on or after 1 April 2023 shall be frozen by the RTA.
Further, such member will not be eligible to receive dividend in physical mode.
are requested to kindly register/update their email address with their respective DPs, where shares are held in demat mode.
be served the Annual Report for FY2022 and Notice of 15th e-AGM, may temporarily get themselves registered with KFin, by following the procedure mentioned below:
a) Visit the link https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/mobilereg/mobileemailreg.aspx b) Select the company name i.e., Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
c) Select the holding type from the drop down i.e. - NSDL/CDSL/Physical.
d) Enter DP ID – Client ID (in case shares are held in electronic form)/Folio No. (in case shares are held in physical form) and PAN.
e) If PAN details are not available in the system, the system will prompt to upload a self-attested copy of the PAN card for updating records.
f) In case shares are held in physical form and PAN is not available in the records, please enter any one of the Share Certificate No. in respect of the shares held by you.
g) Enter the email address and mobile number.
h) System will validate DP ID – Client ID/Folio No. and PAN/Share certificate No., as the case may be, and send OTP at the registered mobile number as well as email address for validation.

5 minutes only.
j) The Notice and e-voting instructions along with the User ID and Password will be sent on the email address updated by the member.
with the User ID and Password. Such members will have to register their email address with their DPs permanently, so that all communications are received by them in electronic form.
l) In case of queries, members are requested to write to einward.ris@kfintech.com or call at the toll free number 1800-309-4001.
duplicate share certificates, transmission, transposition, etc. Accordingly, members who still hold shares in physical form are advised to dematerialise their holdings.
18. In case of joint holders, the member whose name appears as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register of Members of the Company will be entitled to vote.
documents referred in the Notice will be made accessible for inspection through electronic mode and shall remain open and be accessible to any member during the continuance of the meeting.
a) Register of contracts or arrangements in which directors are interested under section 189 of the Act.
b) Register of directors and key managerial personnel and their shareholding under section 170 of the Act.
Stock Option Scheme of the Company is being implemented in accordance with the SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021.
- Client ID/Folio no., e-mail ID, mobile number, etc. The queries may be raised precisely and in brief to enable the Company to answer the same suitably depending on the availability of time at the meeting.
at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/default.aspx. In respect of shares held in electronic/demat form, the members may please contact their respective DP.
of such shareholders whose dividends are unpaid for a continuous period of 7 years, the corresponding shares shall also be transferred to the IEPF’s demat account.

IEPF’s demat account.
23. For more details on shareholders’ matters, please refer to the chapter on ‘General Shareholder Information’, included in the Annual Report.
24. Since the meeting will be conducted through VC/OAVM facility, the route map is not annexed to this Notice.
Annual Report and Notice of e-AGM to the registered email ID. In case the email ID is not registered, such members may, subject to procedure listed out at Sr. No. 16, obtain the necessary details.
26. General instructions for remote e-voting and joining the e- AGM are as follows:
A. Voting through electronic means:
exercise votes on the items of business given in the Notice, through the e-voting services provided by KFin or to vote at the e-AGM.
members who are entitled to participate in the e-voting process. A person who is not a member as on the cut-off date should treat this Notice for information purpose only.
2022 (5:00 p.m.). Voting beyond the said date shall not be allowed and the remote e-voting facility shall be blocked.
reach out on toll free number 1800 309 4001 for obtaining User ID and password or may write email from the registered email ID to evoting@kfintech.com.
v. The details of the process and manner for remote e-voting are explained herein below:
I) Login method for remote e-voting for Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode.
individual demat account holders, by way of single login credential, through their demat accounts / website of Depositories / DPs in order to increase the efficiency of the voting process.
with the e-voting service provider (‘ESP’) thereby not only facilitating seamless authentication but also ease and convenience of participating in e-voting process.
Shareholders are advised to update their mobile number and e-mail ID with their DPs in order to access e-voting facility.

Login method for Individual shareholders holding securities in Demat mode is given below:
Type of shareholders Login method Individual shareholders 1. Users registered for NSDL IDeAS facility:
e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
to e-voting” under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting page.
provider KFintech and you will be re-directed to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period.
2. Users not registered for IDeAS e-Services:
Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/ IdeasDirectReg.jsp and proceed with completing the required fields.
• After successful registration, please follow the steps given above to cast your vote.
3. By visiting the e-voting website of NSDL:
launched, click on the “Login” icon, available under the ‘Shareholder/ Member’ section.
as shown on the screen. After successful authentication, you will be redirected to NSDL Depository site wherein you can see e-voting page.
provider - KFintech and you will be re-directed to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-voting.
Individual Shareholders 1. Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest:
or www.cdslindia.com and click on login icon and select New System Myeasi.
• Shareholders can login through their existing user ID and password.
Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without any further authentication.
e-voting Menu. The menu will have links of ESPs. Click on KFintech to cast your vote.
2. Users who have not opted for Easi/Easiest:
• Option to register for Easi/Easiest is available at https://web.cdslindia.
required fields. After successful registration, please follow the steps given above to cast your vote.

3. By visiting the e-voting website of CDSL:
will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered mobile & e-mail ID as recorded in the demat Account.
where the e-voting is in progress and will also be able to directly access the system of e-Voting Service Provider i.e. KFintech.
(holding securities in account through their Depository Participant registered with NSDL/CDSL demat mode) logging for e-voting facility. Once logged-in, you will be able to see e-voting option.
Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
provider- KFintech and you will be redirected to e-voting service provider website for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period.
Important Note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password option available at respective websites.
Helpdesk for individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode who need assistance for any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:
or call on toll free no.: 1800 1020 990 and 1800 22 44 30. helpdesk.evoting@cdslindia.com or contact on 022-23058738 or 022-23058542-43.
securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode i. Initial password is provided in the body of the e-mail.
ii. Launch internet browser and type the URL: https://evoting.kfintech.com in the address bar.
ID Client ID will be your User ID. However, if you are already registered with KFin for e-voting, you can use your existing User ID and password for casting your votes.
iv. After entering the correct details, click on LOGIN.
strongly recommended not to share your password with any other person and take utmost care to keep your password confidential.
vi. You need to login again with the new credentials.
vii. On successful login, the system will prompt you to select the EVENT i.e. Bajaj Finserv Limited.

in which case, the shares held will not be counted under either head.
ix. Members holding multiple folios/demat accounts shall choose the voting process separately for each folio/demat account.
allowed to modify your vote subsequently. During the voting period, you can login multiple times till you have confirmed that you have voted on the resolution.
xii. In case of any queries/grievances, you may refer the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for members and e-voting User Manual available at the ‘download’ section of https://evoting.
kfintech.com/ or call KFin on 1800 309 4001 (toll free).
i. Only those members/shareholders, who will be present in the e-AGM and have not cast their vote through remote e-voting & are otherwise not barred from doing so are eligible to vote.
ii. Members who have voted through remote e-voting will still be eligible to attend the e-AGM.
iii. Members attending the e-AGM shall be counted for the purpose of reckoning the quorum under section 103 of the Act.
iv. Voting at e-AGM will be available at the end of the e-AGM and shall be kept open for 15 minutes.
of the video screen. Members will be required to use the credentials, to login on the e-Meeting webpage, and click on the ‘Thumbs-up’ icon against the unit to vote.
and by clicking on the tab “video conference”. The link for e-AGM will be available in members login, where the EVENT and the name of the Company can be selected.
ii. Members are encouraged to join the meeting through devices (Laptops, Desktops, Mobile devices) with Google Chrome for seamless experience.
iii. Further, members registered as speakers will be required to allow camera during e-AGM and hence are requested to use internet with a good speed to avoid any disturbance during the Meeting.
iv. Members may join the Meeting using headphones for better sound clarity.
in their respective networks. Use of a stable Wi-Fi or LAN connection can mitigate some of the technical glitches.

e-AGM. Only questions of the members holding shares as on the cut-off date will be considered.
for quick reference at URL https://emeetings.kfintech.com/, under the “How It Works” tab placed on top of the page.
viii. Members who need technical assistance before or during the e-AGM can contact KFin at emeetings@kfintech.com or Helpline: 1800 309 4001.
D. General Instructions:
No. 1587 CP No. 572) as the Scrutinizer to the e-voting process and voting at the e-AGM in a fair and transparent manner.
same to the Chairman & Managing Director of the Company, who shall countersign the same and declare the result thereof.
iii. The results declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall be placed on the Company’s website https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-stock-exchange-filings and on KFin’s website https://.evoting.
kfintech.com and shall also be communicated to the stock exchanges. The resolutions shall be deemed to be passed at the e-AGM of the Company.
27. Dividend related information:
of shareholders. The Company is also required to deduct Tax at Source (‘TDS’) in respect of approved payment of dividend to its shareholders (resident as well as non-resident).
Resident Shareholders:
dividend declared and paid by the Company during FY2023. However, in the following cases, TDS at the rate of 20% would be applicable as per IT Act:
• Section 206AB of IT Act - Non-filing of return of income tax of previous year (i.e. FY 2020-21) and aggregate of TDS and TCS in said previous year is ₹ 50,000 or more.
₹ 5,000; or if an eligible resident shareholder provides a valid declaration in Form 15G / Form 15H or other documents as may be applicable to different categories of shareholders.
and provides a copy of the same to the Company (TAN – PNEB05806D), tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable to such shareholder at the rate specified in the said certificate.

Non-resident Shareholders:
Institutional Investors ('FII')/ Foreign Portfolio Investors ('FPI') shareholders, section 196D provides for TDS at the rate of 20% or applicable rate plus applicable surcharge and health & education cess.
by the provisions of the Double Tax Avoidance Agreement ('DTAA') read with applicable Multilateral Instrument (MLI) provisions, if they are more beneficial to them.
relation-annual-reports. Kindly note that the documents should be uploaded with KFin at https://ris.kfintech.com/form15 or emailed to einward.ris@kfintech.com.
No communication on the tax determination/ deduction shall be entertained after 12 July 2022.
deducting the appropriate taxes, if any, provided that these documents are in accordance with the provisions of the IT Act.
In addition to the above, please note the following:
PAN, the highest rate of tax as applicable to the status in which shares held under the said PAN will be considered on the entire holding in different accounts.
• In case of joint shareholding, the withholding tax rates shall be considered basis the status of the primary beneficial shareholder.
their return of income and claiming an appropriate refund, as may be eligible. No claim shall lie against the Company for such taxes deducted.
at the email ID registered with KFin within the prescribed time as per IT Act. The amount of TDS can also be viewed in Form 26AS on the website of the Income Tax department of India https://www.
incometax.gov.in/home.
information/ documents and co-operation in any assessment/ appellate proceedings before the Tax/ Government authorities.
are being available on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finance-investor- relation-annual-reports.

ANNEXURE TO THE NOTICE INFORMATION PURSUANT TO REGULATION 36(3) OF SEBI LISTING REGULATIONS AND PROVISIONS
OF THE ACT Item no. 3 of the Notice relating to re-appointment of Manish Santoshkumar Kejriwal (DIN: 00040055),
who retires by rotation.
equity experiences across various industries and sectors in private and public companies and in other private equity funds.
was part of their New York, Cleveland and Mumbai offices. He also worked at the World Bank in Washington D.C. and with Goldman Sachs (Principal Investment/Corporate Finance) in Hong Kong.
and Exchange Board of India (SEBI). He was first appointed as director on the Board of the Company on 1 January 2019.
Sr.
Sciences and received Dean's Plate. He holds a Master’s in Business Administration(MBA) from Harvard University.
3. Remuneration last drawn (FY2022) ₹ 28,50,000/- as commission and ₹ 15,00,000/- as sitting fees.
4. Disclosure of relationship between director Manish Santoshkumar Kejriwal is not related to any of the directors or inter se key managerial personnel of the Company.
5. Shareholding in the Company Nil equity shares (excludes shareholding held in other capacity).
6. Directorships of other Boards Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd. and Bharti Airtel Ltd.
Committee Company Audit Committee Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
Committee Audit Committee Bharti Airtel Ltd.
10. Number of Board meetings attended During FY2022, Manish Santoshkumar Kejriwal attended all the seven Board meetings of the Company.
He is not disqualified from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164 of the Act.

of the members.
Item no. 4 of the Notice Appointment of Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP, Chartered Accountants, (Firm Registration Number:
105146W/W100621) as the Statutory Auditor and to fix their remuneration:
in accordance with their firm's policy. In view of the same they intimated their resignation with effect from 13 November 2021.
Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company to conduct audit of accounts of the Company for the financial year ending 31 March 2022.
years, i.e., from the conclusion of 15th AGM till conclusion of the 19th AGM of the Company to conduct audit of accounts of the Company for the financial year ending from 31 March 2023 to 31 March 2026.
auditors in terms of the provisions of the section 141 of the Act and the provisions of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014.
Pursuant to Regulation 36(5) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the following details are mentioned below for the information of Members:
Sr.
reimbursements) for FY2023 shall be ₹ 26.50 lakh with authority to Board to make changes as it may deem fit for the balance term.
2. Terms of appointment Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP will continue as Statutory Auditors for four more years, i.e., financial years ending from 31 March 2023 till 31 March 2026.
3. Material change in fee None.
auditor credentials Companies Act, 2013, at its meeting held on 28 April 2022, had recommended the appointment of Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP as Statutory Auditors of the Company.

Profile:
Khimji Kunverji and Co. LLP is a Chartered Accountant Firm registered with Institute of Chartered Accountants of India with Firm Registration No. 105146W/W100621.
significant experience in providing auditing, taxation & advisory services to banks and other financial services clients.
the Company. The Board recommends the resolutions set forth in Item No. 4 of the notice for approval of the members.
Accountants, as the Cost Auditor of the Company for FY2023 on a remuneration of ₹ 65,000 (Rupees sixty- five thousand only) plus taxes, out-of-pocket, travelling and living expenses.
Item No. 5 of the Notice, accordingly, seeks members’ ratification keep approval for the remuneration of Cost Auditor of the Company for FY2023.
or interested, financially or otherwise, except to the extent of their respective shareholding, if any, in the Company.
The Board recommends this ordinary resolution set out in Item No. 5 of the Notice for consideration and approval of the members.
By order of the Board of Directors For Bajaj Finserv Ltd.

1 5TH ANNUAL
REPORT 2021-2022 Rahul Bajaj (1938 - 2022)
BAJAJ FINSERV LIMITED

[EMPTY PAGE]

CONTENTS 4 Corporate Information 6 Leading the Way 9 Chairman's Letter 12 Management Discussion and Analysis 35 Report on Corporate Governance 58 General Shareholder Information 67 Directors' Report (Including Annual Report on CSR Activities) 92 Consolidated Financial Statements 253 Standalone Financial Statements 1

“Earlier organisations made individuals, today individuals make an organisation.”

CORPORATE INFORMATION Board of Directors Nomination and Remuneration Committee Sanjiv Bajaj Chairman & Managing Director D J Balaji Rao D J Balaji Rao Chairman Dr. Gita Piramal Dr. Gita Piramal (up to 30 April 2022) (up to 30 April 2022) Dr. Naushad Forbes Dr. Naushad Forbes (w.e.f. 1 October 2021) Anami N Roy Anami N Roy Pramit Jhaveri (w.e.f. 1 October 2021) (w.e.f. 1 May 2022) Radhika Haribhakti Radhika Haribhakti (w.e.f. 1 May 2022) (w.e.f. 1 May 2022) Sanjiv Bajaj Madhur Bajaj Rajiv Bajaj Manish Kejriwal Manish Kejriwal Duplicate Share Certificate Issuance Committee Audit Committee Sanjiv Bajaj Dr. Naushad Forbes Chairman Chairman Rajiv Bajaj D J Balaji Rao Manish Kejriwal Dr. Gita Piramal (up to 30 April 2022) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Pramit Jhaveri (w.e.f. 1 May 2022) Dr. Naushad Forbes Chairman Manish Kejriwal (w.e.f. 29 October 2021) Stakeholders Relationship Committee Anami N Roy Dr. Gita Piramal Sanjiv Bajaj (Chairperson up to 30 April 2022) Dr. Naushad Forbes Risk Management Committee (Chairman w.e.f. 1 May 2022) Dr. Naushad Forbes Chairman Radhika Haribhakti (w.e.f. 1 May 2022) Pramit Jhaveri (w.e.f. 1 May 2022) Sanjiv Bajaj Sanjiv Bajaj Anish Amin President (Group Risk, Assurance, M & A and HR) 4

Managing Director, Bajaj Finance Ltd.
MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz General Deutsche Bank Insurance Company Ltd.
HDFC Bank MD & CEO, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd.
Devang Mody Pune - 411 035.
CEO, Bajaj Finserv Health Ltd. & Group Head- CIN: L65923PN2007PLC130075
Strategy, Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Manish Jain Corporate Office CEO, Bajaj Financial Securities Ltd.
Bajaj Finserv House Ganesh Mohan Viman Nagar, Pune - 411 014.
CEO, Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Ltd.
Ashish Panchal CEO, Bajaj Finserv Direct Ltd. KFin Technologies Ltd.
S Sreenivasan Telangana - 500 032.

LEADING THE WAY Anish Amin Atul Jain President Pur P a r v es J id h e a n v t e ri Ra P n r j e it s i G de u n p t t a Manish Jain Group A H ja ea y d S - a C th us e tomer H C e D E a O e lt , v h B a L a n t j d a g . j M & Fi n o G s d r e o y r u v p (Grou M p & R i A sk a , n A d s s H u R ra ) nce, S Sree C n FO ivasan Ma B n F a a in j g a a i j n n H g c o e D u L i s r t e i d n c . g t o r, (Investment) (Insurance) CEO, Bajaj Financial Experience & CSR Head- Strategy, Bajaj
Ashish Panchal Securities Ltd. Finserv Ltd.
CEO- Bajaj Finserv Direct Ltd.
MD and CEO, Chairman & MD and CEO, CEO, Bajaj Finserv Asset President Managing Director, Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Managing Director Bajaj Allianz General Management Ltd. (Legal & Taxation) Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Company Ltd. Insurance Company Ltd.
6 7

CHAIRMAN’S LETTER Dear Shareholder, Allow me to begin with a short tribute to Shri Rahul Bajaj, who was for long the Chairman, and more recently the Chairman Emeritus, of your Company. This tribute
is from a son to a beloved father.
My father was unique and special. People across the country — even those who did not know him personally — lauded him for being fearless and outspoken.
I have not seen many who had his courage to honestly share his convictions.
his, he was compassionate and caring to all those he knew. He was my mentor, counsellor and friend.
I will miss him. Yet, I am secure in the knowledge that the values he instilled in me will always remain.
provisions without damaging our financials and capital adequacy. Such resilience was shown by every employee across each business of your Company.
all-encompassing digital capabilities; add new products; and create greater synergy and efficiencies- all to better service our customers.
In this, Bajaj Finance Ltd. (BFL) leads the pack; closely followed by Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd. (BALIC) and Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd.
continues to be one of the most efficient users of capital among the private sector insurance companies.
management amount to ₹ 53,322 crore. In FY2022, BHFL earned total income of ₹ 3,767 crore; net interest income of ₹ 1,612 crore; profit before tax of ₹ 960 crore;
and profit after tax of ₹ 710 crore. It is an extremely creditable performance.
Indeed, BHFL is fast growing into an adult to join the other three large enterprises in your Company — BFL, BALIC and BAGIC.

Let me now move on to ideas for the future.
platform combining demat, broking, margin trade financing for retail and HNI clients on a predominantly B2C platform.
and e-commerce. Our intent is to attract new-to-Finserv customers by creating discovery and experience of the brand through a seamless digital medium.
product, offering a wide range of personalised, preventive and prepaid healthcare packages such as OPD care, telemedicine and other services.
in-principle approval to set up this enterprise, we are completing the requirements for the final licence.
Covid created an unprecedented health crisis, especially during the Delta wave.
and their families, and extended financial and logistical support towards diagnosis and treatment.
hospitals plus respiratory support equipment like oxygen concentrators, ventilators and BiPaps to help augment their capacity in treating Covid patients.

Let me conclude by making two other observations.
it from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI).
fundamental structural changes in the ways in which the industry does business and, in doing so, are separating men from the boys.
for greater operational efficiencies; managerial ownership, empowerment and accountability; welcoming disruptive innovations and long-term profitable growth.
These, more than anything else, have created value for your Company and its subsidiaries. And, will continue doing so in the years to come.

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (‘Bajaj Finserv’, ‘BFS’ or ‘the Company’) is an unregistered core investment company (CIC) under RBI regulations 2020 and the holding company for the various financial services businesses under the
Bajaj group. Its vision is to provide financial solutions for retail and SME customers through their life cycle.
for the family, (v) offering savings products, (vi) wealth management, and (vii) retirement planning and annuities. Through these businesses that offer various attractive solutions, BFS serves crores of customers.
of which at least 60% should be in the form of equity investments. Investments outside the group can only be made in specified short-term securities like money market instruments.
BFS participates in various businesses through controlling stakes. These are:
• T he financing business through its 52.49% holding in Bajaj Finance Ltd. (BFL), a large, well recognised and highly profitable listed enterprise.
is a profitable and fast growing enterprise engaged in various aspects of housing finance and development.
depository participant. BFinsec is a stockbroker that provides its clients a full suite of investment products and services in an all-in-one digital platform.
• L ife, general and health insurance businesses through its 74% holding in two unlisted subsidiaries, namely:
o Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd. (BALIC); and o Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd. (BAGIC).
a 100% subsidiary of BFS. Having obtained an in-principle approval to set up the asset management company, it is in the process of completing the requirements for the final licence.
products, payments and e-commerce. The idea is to attract new-to-Finserv customers by creating awareness and discovery of the Finserv brand in a seamless digital medium.
industry-first product, offering a wide range of personalised, preventive and prepaid healthcare packages such as OPD care, telemedicine, and other services.
• Bajaj Finserv Ventures Ltd.: A 100% subsidiary of BFS, this is an investment platform for alternate assets.
• B ajaj Finserv also has investments in renewable energy in the form of 138 windmills situated in Maharashtra with an aggregate installed capacity of 65.2 MW.

regulations laid down by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI).
in some places, the roll-out of vaccines in India began in dead earnest. The eventual success of nation-wide vaccination across this far flung sub-continent played a large role in curbing hospitalisation.
Delta. So, while many got infected, almost all got well again within a week or so, without hospitalisation and morbidity. India did not see a re-run of lockdowns and a massive drop in GDP as witnessed in FY2021.
Thanks to a huge vaccination drive, the earlier strong link between Covid waves and fall in GDP growth was considerably reduced.
variants are like Omicron, we should have less to worry about mass hospitalisations, huge excess morbidity, multiple lockdowns and lower growth.
and survived the challenges thrown by Covid have generally become resilient and agile organisations who are now future ready to weather such a massive disruption.
The Indian economy had been staging a recovery since the second half of FY2021. Thus, FY2022 began with an expectation that we would soon see GDP surpass the pre-pandemic level of the 2019-20 (FY2020).
That has just about been the case, as Chart A shows. Nevertheless, the fact is that we as a nation have effectively lost two years of GDP growth.

Chart B depicts India’s real GDP growth over the same period.
on 28 February 2022 pegs GDP growth in FY2022 to be 8.9%. Table 1 gives the data on real GDP and real Gross Value Added (GVA) growth for the last four financial years.

Source: Government of India, CSO. AE denotes Advance Estimate and RE denotes Revised Estimate.
contained at 12%. The budget’s expectation was that such capex-led growth would take India on a growth path even at the cost of higher fiscal deficit.
however, is that there will be a considerable impact on inflation which was already becoming a cause of concern.
to 6.01% y-o-y in January 2022 from 5.66% in December 2021 due to large adverse base effects. Chart C depicts the India’s Inflation rates based on the CPI and the wholesale price index (WPI).
more recently, with the Ukraine conflict, from Russia. It is difficult to predict how these will play out; but it is likely that global supply chain disruptions will have a longer life than the other challenges.
4.23 CPI WPI

deposits and offers variety of financial services products to its customers.
Securities Ltd. (‘BFinsec’), which is registered with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) as a stock broker and depository participant.
BFL: Consolidated Performance Highlights for FY2022
• Number of new loans booked: up by 46% to 24.7 million.
OVER
• Assets under management (AUM): increased by 29% to ₹ 197,452 crore.
• Total income: increased by 19% to ₹ 31,640 crore. 50 SMART
• Net interest income (NII): rose by 27% to ₹ 21,892 crore.
PRODUCTS
• Operating expenses to NII stood at 34.6%.
• Impairment on financial instruments: decreased by 20% to ₹ 4,803 crore. THAT SUIT
• Profit before tax (PBT): increased by 59% to ₹ 9,504 crore.
EVERY NEED
• Profit after tax (PAT): increased by 59% to ₹ 7,028 crore.
• C apital adequacy ratio as of 31 March 2022 was 27.22%, which is well above the RBI norms.
Tier I adequacy was 24.75%.
Chart D gives a snapshot of BFL’s consolidated AUM over the last five years. Table 2 gives data on the consolidated AUM across the various business categories.
4% CONSUMER FINANCE SME FINANCE COMMERCIAL LENDING
Consumer Durable Loan Working Capital Loan Loan Against Securities 152,947 147,153 Digital Product Loan Loan to Self-employed and IPO Finance G R -
33 % L L
i i f f e e s c t a y r l e e F
P in ro a d n u c c e t Loan P Se ro c f u e r s e s d io
E n n a t l e s rprise Loan
E V
S en
O d
P o
F r i
F n i a n n a c n e ce
A C 2-Wheeler & 3-Wheeler Loan Used-car Finance Financial Institutions Lending 115,888 Personal Loan Medical Equipment Finance Light Engineering Lending Home Loan Specialty Chemicals Lending
INSURANCE Loan Against Property 82,422 Gold Loan Life, General & Health Insurance SECURITIES Distribution Trading Account Pocket Insurance PAYMENTS Depository Services EMI Network Card Margin Trading Finance
INVESTMENTS Health EMI Card HNI Broking Systematic Deposit Plan Co-branded Credit Card Retail Broking Mutual Fund Co-branded Wallet FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 Term Deposit
PPI, UPI, BBPS

OVER 50 SMART
PRODUCTS THAT SUIT
EVERY NEED CONSUMER FINANCE SME FINANCE COMMERCIAL LENDING
Consumer Durable Loan Working Capital Loan Loan Against Securities Digital Product Loan Loan to Self-employed and IPO Finance Lifestyle Product Loan Professionals ESOP Finance Lifecare Finance Secured Enterprise Loan Vendor Finance 2-Wheeler & 3-Wheeler Loan Used-car Finance Financial Institutions Lending Personal Loan Medical Equipment Finance Light Engineering Lending Home Loan Specialty Chemicals Lending INSURANCE
Loan Against Property Gold Loan Life, General & Health Insurance SECURITIES Distribution Trading Account Pocket Insurance PAYMENTS Depository Services EMI Network Card Margin Trading Finance INVESTMENTS
Health EMI Card HNI Broking Systematic Deposit Plan Co-branded Credit Card Retail Broking Mutual Fund Co-branded Wallet Term Deposit PPI, UPI, BBPS

of 19% over 31 March 2021.
Consumer lending
• BFL continues to be the dominant lender for consumer electronics, furniture and digital products in India.
It financed 12.7 million consumer electronics and digital products purchases in FY2022.
• BFL’s unique Existing Member Identification (EMI) card, with about 29.9 million cards in force, enables customers to avail instant finance after the first purchase across more than 122,000 points of sale.
domestic sale of Bajaj two-wheelers and 44% of Bajaj three-wheelers. Going forward, BFL will finance the purchase of other motorcycles as well.
• Personal Loan Cross Sell (PLCS) is a pre-approved loan origination programme for existing customers of BFL. BFL launched a three-click self-service ‘get it now’ disbursal process for customers.
• Offers unsecured and secured loans — such as working capital loans and term facilities — to SMEs, MSMEs and professionals. This segment saw disruptions on account of the pandemic induced slowdown.
While demand for SME loans bounced back from the second quarter in FY2022, the second wave of pandemic had an adverse impact on the loan losses.
MSME customers against their residential property or used four-wheeler and loans to professionals such as doctors and chartered accountants grew by 24% to ₹ 24,896 crore.

on 31 March 2022.
• This consists of lending to auto component manufacturers and the light engineering industry, loans to financial institutions, to specialty chemical and pharma industry and other mid-market companies.
value add by offering products in the form of working and growth capital loans. Commercial lending recorded an AUM growth of 39% to ₹ 11,498 crore.
year with an AUM of ₹ 10,536 crore. This was excluding the short-term IPO financing AUM which stood at ₹ 5,365 crore as of 31 March 2022.
standalone borrowings and 19% of its consolidated borrowings as on 31 March 2022. Retail deposits account for 69% of total deposits.
co-branded credit card, co-branded wallet and financial fitness reports. These partnerships and products have enabled BFL to provide value added services to its customers and grow its fee-based income.
stood at over 2.8 million as on 31 March 2022. The credit card alliance agreement with RBL Bank has been further renewed for a period of 60 months.
association with DBS Bank (India) Ltd. (‘DBS Bank’). The company launched a co-branded credit card with DBS Bank on 5 April 2022.
Financial Performance Table 3 gives BFL’s consolidated financial performance for FY2022. Table 4 gives the key ratios.

* These ratios are on standalone basis.
higher management overlay loan loss provision of ₹ 1,060 crore as on 31 March 2022 versus ₹ 840 crore as on 31 March 2021 to account for any tail risk which may emerge from the pandemic.
registering a growth of 59%. In doing so, it once again demonstrated the resilience of its business model which generates strong pre-impairment profitability to absorb higher losses emanating from a crisis.

available throughout FY2022 to meet its debt service obligations and business growth requirements.
representing 9% of its average outstanding borrowings in FY2022. It had a consolidated liquidity surplus of ₹ 10,110 crore as on 31 March 2022, representing 6% of outstanding borrowings.
Bajaj Housing Finance Limited (BHFL) Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd. (BHFL), a 100% subsidiary of BFL, started its lending operation from July 2017.
against property to rural individuals and MSME customers. Table 5 gives BHFL’s standalone financials; and Table 6 gives its AUM.

BFinsec, a 100% subsidiary of BFL, is registered with the SEBI as a stockbroker and depository participant.
and mobile trading app to add several major capabilities including multiple charts, E-Collect feature for hassle-free fund addition etc.
services to HNIs with high level of customisation , demat and broking for retail customers with multiple means of digital access apart from call-in-trade and Margin Trade Financing for both HNI and retail clients.
During the year, BFL infused ₹ 400 crore of additional share capital in BFinsec to finance its near-term growth plans. BFinsec generated total income of ₹ 124 crore and profit after tax of ₹ 17 crore in FY2022.
motor, health, crop, marine, and various forms of commercial lines of insurance. It has built a strong retail franchise and retained a leading position among private insurers.
chase market share, BAGIC has differentiated itself by focusing on a profitable and diversified portfolio, and balancing growth with profitability. It is one of the most respected brands in general insurance.
After recording approximately 12% CAGR in Gross Written Premium (GWP) in the last five years, FY2022 saw India’s general insurance industry facing a difficult environment amid resurgence of the Covid pandemic.
massive hospitalisations. Sales of consumer durables and motor vehicles were also badly affected in many states. Consequently, risk levels remained elevated during the year.
of critical components and low demand for two-wheelers. This led to lower sales of passenger vehicles during festive seasons of FY2022.
impacted the bottom line of general insurers. On the motor third party segment, where the price is fixed by means of a tariff, there was no increase in premium rates granted in FY2022.
driven by growth in health and commercial lines of business. Growth rates in gross direct premium in India (GWP less reinsurance accepted) for the industry, and for BAGIC, are shown in the Table 7.

BAGIC 13,689 12,570 Private sector 109,748 98,001 Public sector 75,117 71,844 Industry 184,865 169,845 Standalone health insurers (SAHI) 20,866 15,755 Industry including SAHI 205,731 185,600 Growth rates
BAGIC 8.9% (1.6%) Private sector 12.0% 5.1% Public sector 4.6% (2.0%) Industry 8.8% 2.0% Standalone health insurers (SAHI) 32.4% 31.5% Industry including SAHI 10.8% 4.0%
Source: GI Council figures, IRDA website and IRDA, Handbook of Insurance Statistics.
* excluding specialised insurers.
in third party claims. This revision has come after three years. The increase in rates, which is expected to impact new cars and two wheelers the most, is more modest than past price increases.
underwriting discipline along with a sharp focus on managing risk and protecting capital consistent with calibrated growth.
• Notwithstanding these challenges, BAGIC posted a growth rate of 8.9% in FY2022, which was in line with the industry growth rate of composite insurers.
Ayushman Bharat government health scheme and ₹ 2,081 crore premium under the government crop insurance schemes.
strong retention of premium and judicious investments of the proceeds; and (c) focus on high quality customer service.
• BAGIC has a diversified multi-channel distribution network consisting of banks, NBFCs, individual agents, motor insurance service providers, point of sales persons and its proprietary Virtual Sales Offices.

and radiology expenses and annual preventive health check-up cover.
farming community, Farmitra, saw 5.34 lakh downloads; some 1.34 lakh farmer claims were processed through the app.
• Its new core policy administration system has accelerated the growth in travel business. During the year, the retail health insurance module has also been launched.
BAGIC: Performance Highlights for FY2022
• Gross written premium (GWP) stood at ₹ 13,788 crore in FY2022, a growth of 9%.
• BAGIC maintained its market share in the industry, including standalone insurers, at 6.7% in FY2022.
• Net earned premium was ₹ 7,779 crore.
• The combined ratio was 99.6%.
• P rofit after tax for FY2022 was ₹ 1,339 crore — which was mainly impacted due to overall higher claims on account second wave of Covid and lower investment yields due to low interest rates.
• Some 22 million policies were issued in the year, versus about 25 million in FY2021.
• 4,562,051 claims were reported in the year, versus 3,771,501 in FY2021.
BAGIC’s financial performance for FY2022 is summarised in Table 8. Chart E plots the Company’s PAT over the last five years.
* Combined ratio is calculated according to the Master Circular on ‘Preparation of Financial Statements of General Insurance Business’ issued by the IRDAI effective from 1 April 2013.

FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 Cash and investments • BAGIC’s cash and investments as on 31 March 2022 were ₹ 24,633 crore, versus ₹ 23,150 crore in the
previous year. Cash flow generation continued to be strong.
• Paid-up capital, including share premium, stood at ₹ 277 crore as at 31 March 2022. No fresh capital was infused in the year.
most efficient users of capital in the private sector — as measured by the ratio of GWP to share capital and by GWP to shareholders’ equity.
• Shareholders’ equity of BAGIC was ₹ 8,822 crore as on 31 March 2022, versus ₹ 7,524 crore a year earlier.
• As on 31 March 2022, BAGIC’s solvency margin was at 344%, which is well above the normal regulatory requirement of 150%.
management team and strong brand positions have helped it in these challenging times. As these should help it to come out of the crisis and make most of various opportunities.
Company Ltd. (BALIC) BALIC is one of India’s leading life insurers offering all types of life insurance, savings and annuity products.
It has built a strong multi-channel retail franchise spread across India.
product portfolio, several technological advancements in serving the customers and distributors and brand enrichment.

norms and rate hikes by reinsurers.
guaranteed return plans. However, with the recovery in equity markets, the industry again saw a revival in demand for unit-linked insurance plans in Q3 FY2022.
foray into this untapped segment. Annuity, guaranteed products and ULIPs helped in propelling growth across the industry.
industry, private sector grew by 22%, while LIC grew by 7%. BALIC recorded strong growth in IRNBP of 49% for FY2022.
• Of the total growth experienced by the industry, individual new business grew by 10%; and group new business by 15% in FY2022.
Table 9 gives the industry-wide data, along with BALIC.
Particulars FY2022 FY2021 FY2022 FY2021 BALIC 3,686 2,468 9,136 6,313
Private sector 55,077 45,192 115,503 94,103 LIC 32,496 30,466 198,760 184,175
Industry 87,573 75,658 314,263 278,278 Growth rates BALIC 49.4% 28.0% 44.7% 21.9%
Private sector 21.9% 7.5% 22.7% 16.3% LIC 6.7% -3.1% 7.9% 3.5%
Industry 15.7% 3.0% 12.9% 7.5% Market Share Private industry 62.9% 59.7% 36.8% 33.8% LIC 37.1% 40.3% 63.2% 66.2%
Source: Life Council statistics. Note: Individual rated new business premium = (100% of first year premium and 10% of single premium excluding group products).
effect of last year, the industry was able to report better numbers from Q2 FY2022. BALIC recorded excellent growth — well above that of the industry.

four years at 27%.
1,397 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
• BALIC registered increase in market share from 3.3% in FY2021 to 4.2% in FY2022 on IRNBP basis.
Within the private industry, its market share grew from 5.5% in FY2021 to 6.7% in FY2022.
products increased to approximately 41% for FY2022 versus around 36% in FY2021
• Some of the other key achievements of FY2022 for BALIC are:
o An increase in persistency across different vintages, lower customer grievances and improvement in claims settlement ratios.
o Enhancement of product portfolio with products like the Bajaj Allianz Assured Wealth Goal in the annuity segment.
offering to enable customers get response on a click and enabling self-service at nine Shoppe branches via Kiosks.

• Individual rated new business premium grew by 49% in FY2022 to ₹ 3,686 crore.
• Group protection new business premium grew by 43% to ₹ 2,287 crore.
• New business premium grew by 45% to ₹ 9,136 crore.
• Renewal premium grew by 22% to ₹ 6,991 crore.
• G ross written premium (GWP) increased by 34% in FY2022 to ₹ 16,127 crore. BALIC registered its highest ever GWP during the year.
• P AT was ₹ 324 crore, primarily due to lower realised investment income, higher new business strain/ higher overruns .
• N ew Business Value (NBV), a key metric used to measure profitability of life insurance businesses, increased by 72% to ₹ 621 crore.
• C ustomer grievances per 10,000 policies saw a decline of 9% in FY2022 versus FY2021, to all time low of 40 grievances per 10,000 new policies issued .
• T he embedded value of the Company at FY2022 stood at ₹ 17,249 crore up from ₹ 15,534 crore at FY2021.
• AUM was ₹ 85,623 crore.
*Policies issued in the March to February period of the relevant years.
Financial Performance BALIC’s financial performance for FY2022 is summarised in Table 10.
As on 31 March 2022, BALIC’s AUM was ₹ 85,623 crore — up by 16% from ₹ 73,773 crore on 31 March 2021, reflecting a significant improvement in equity markets. Table 11 provides the data.

was infused in FY2022.
₹ 412 crore as on 31 March 2022, the shareholders’ net worth was ₹ 10,939 crore. For the previous year, accumulated profits were ₹ 9,076 crore, and shareholders’ net worth was ₹ 10,735 crore.
• BALIC has a strong solvency ratio of 581% as on 31 March 2022, which is well in excess of the minimum regulatory requirement of 150%.
to remain cautious with strict underwriting guidelines and calibrated risk approach. Demand for guaranteed business continued to remain strong in FY2022.
100 financial product variants across loans, cards, insurance, investments and payments. Through its e-commerce business, it offers electronics, mobiles and lifestyle products in India.
• partners with some of the companies in the BFSI sector and has onboarded over 18 lending partners , including BFL, providing a range of products in both unsecured and secured lending on its platform.
• offers BFL, its strategic partner, end-to-end lending, insurance and investment platform services.
• is a corporate agent for distribution of insurance products. It has currently 8 partnerships across general, life and health insurance including BAGIC and BALIC.
• offers the Bajaj Markets cards platform with 5 credit card partners including State Bank of India, Axis Bank Ltd., ICICI Bank Ltd., RBL Bank Ltd. and Citibank.
Bajaj Markets offers mainly 3 customer-facing digital assets, offering the entire range of its products from its partners:
• The Bajaj MARKETS online portal on its website.
• The Bajaj MARKETS mobile app which is available on most popular app stores.
• The Customer portal on its app and website that caters to servicing needs of its customers.
Bajaj Markets recorded a revenue of ₹ 207 crore and a loss of ₹ 88 crore during FY2022 (₹ 102 crore and ₹ 44 crore respectively in FY2021). BFS has so far infused capital of ₹ 525 crore in this fintech venture.
During FY2022, BFL took a stake of 19.9% in Bajaj Markets by infusing ₹ 283 crore.

for enhanced customer experience.
appointments, outpatient services and discounted services from network hospitals. The Bajaj Finserv Health application is available on most popular mobile app stores.
• a practice management software for doctors who are part of its network. It has built a robust network of doctors, hospitals and laboratories across India.
• has been selected as wave 1 partner of NHA for Unified Health Interface of Ayushman Bharat Digital Mission.
(₹ 10 crore and ₹ 63 crore respectively in FY2021). BFS has so far infused capital of ₹ 240 crore in this health tech venture.
Renewable Energy and Conservation of Environment Bajaj Finserv owns and operates 138 windmills in Maharashtra with total installed capacity of 65.2 MW.
environment. Apart from revenue from sale of power generated by these wind farms, BFS also earns revenue from Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs).
was ₹ 29 crore versus ₹ 24 crore in the previous year, due to resumption of REC trade by regulatory authorities during FY2022.
BFS: Consolidated Performance Highlights for FY2022 Despite a roller-coaster year impacted by Covid, following all-time highs were registered:
• Consolidated revenue of ₹ 68,439 crore.
• Consolidated profit after tax of ₹ 4,557 crore.
• BFL consolidated profit after tax of ₹ 7,028 crore.
• BAGIC gross written premium of ₹ 13,788 crore.
• BALIC gross written premium of ₹ 16,127 crore.
Standalone Financials Standalone financials of the Company are given in Table 12 and the significant ratios in Table 13.

*Includes dividend received from subsidiaries of ₹ 511 crore (Previous year : ₹ 233 crore).
The consolidated financials are given in Table 14. These include the results of subsidiaries and joint venture and are prepared in accordance with the Ind AS.
Note on consolidated profit after tax:
Value Through Profit and Loss Account. Unrealised Mark-to-market (MTM) gain/(loss) on investments (post tax) included in consolidated profit are given below.

which are given below.
BFS Late Rahul Bajaj, Chairman Emeritus of Bajaj group, was conferred with the ‘Hall of Fame’ honour at the
CNBC-TV18 India Business Leader Awards (IBLA), 2022 for his extraordinary leadership over the years.
BFL Rajeev Jain, Managing Director, Bajaj Finance Ltd., was conferred with the ‘Champion of Champions’, honour
in the prestigious Business Today-PwC India’s Best CEOs rankings.
Bajaj Finance bagged Gold for ‘Digital Marketing Excellence in Financial Services’ for its Fixed Deposit digital campaign at the DIGIXX 2019 Awards by Adgully.
BAGIC ‘General Insurance Company of the Year’ at India Insurance Summit & Awards 2022.
‘Gold Award in the Non-Life Insurance Provider of the Year’ at the 20th edition of the Outlook Money Awards.
BALIC Bajaj Allianz Life won under the ‘Highest Growth’ category at the ASSOCHAM 13th Global Insurance
E-Summit & Awards.
Bajaj Allianz Life won Kincentric ‘Best Employer Award’ 2021.
Won accolades for revolutionary digital platform Smart Assist, including ET BFSI Excellence Awards 2021 under ‘Best Digital Customer Experience Initiative [Insurance]’.
Recognised as the ‘Dream Employer of the Year’ at the Dream Companies to Work for Awards by The World HRD Congress 2022.
Won the coveted ‘The Economic Times Innovation Awards 2020’ for their Business Model Innovation in creating a diversified financial services marketplace for consumers.
Won the ‘Best Lending Tech Award’, in the Payment and Fintech category at the 10th India Digital Summit, 2020.
Statements in this Management Discussion and Analysis describing the Company’s objectives, projections, estimates and expectations may be ‘forward looking’ within the meaning of applicable laws and regulations.
the Company’s operations include global economy, political stability, stock performance on stock markets, changes in government regulations, tax regimes, economic developments and other incidental factors.
to reflect future events or circumstances. Investors are advised to exercise due care and caution while interpreting these statements.

REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance is about promoting fairness, transparency, accountability, commitment to values,
ethical business conduct and about considering all stakeholders’ interest while conducting business.
2015 and amendments thereto, (the ‘SEBI Listing Regulations’), given below are the corporate governance policies and practices of Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (the ‘Company’, ‘Bajaj Finserv’ or ‘BFS’) for FY2022.
governance practices and disclosures are well beyond complying with the minimum statutory and regulatory requirements stipulated in the applicable laws.
and accountability are the main thrust of the working of the Bajaj group. The Company maintains the same tradition and commitment.
the subsidiaries, Bajaj Finserv seeks adoption of key group principles of corporate governance across its subsidiaries.
Key elements of Bajaj Finserv’s Corporate Governance
• Compliance with applicable law.
• Number of Board and Committee meetings more than the statutory requirement, including meetings dedicated for discussing strategy, operating plans and risks.
• The Company's Board comprises of directors from diverse backgrounds and substantial experience, who are able to provide appropriate guidance to the executive management as required.
• Panel of independent directors with outstanding track record and reputation.
• Pre-Audit Committee meetings of the Committee’s Chair with statutory auditors, internal auditor and members of executive management who are the process owner.
• Separate meeting of independent directors without presence of non-independent directors or executive management.
• Confidential Board evaluation process where each Board member evaluates the performance of every director, Committees of the Board, the Chairman of the Board and the Board itself.
• Presentations by key senior management team members of the Company and its subsidiaries to familiarise the directors with key elements of each of the businesses.
• Complete and detailed information provided to Board members in advance to enable them to evaluate matters carefully for meaningful discussions.
• Representation of the Company via non-executive and independent directors on the Board of its material subsidiaries which ensures an institutionalised structure of control over subsidiaries.

the Company’s performance.
• Adoption of key governance policies and codes by the Board in line with best practices, which are made available to stakeholders for downloading/viewing from the Company’s website. These include:
- Whistle Blower Policy/vigil mechanism;
- Policy on Materiality of and dealing with Related Party Transactions;
- Code of Conduct for directors and senior management;
- Dividend Distribution Policy;
- Policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at workplace;
- Charter of fair & responsible workplace guidelines for contract labour;
- Corporate Social Responsibility Policy;
- Remuneration Policy;
- Policy on Material Subsidiaries;
- Code of ethics and personal conduct;
- Responsible and Sustainable Business Conduct Policy;
- Employee Charter and Human Rights Statement;and
- CII Code of Conduct.
• The weblinks of key policies are given as an annexure to this Report.
non-independent directors to maintain the independence of the Board and to separate the Board functions of governance and management.
with applicable laws, reviewing and approving the financial results, enhancing corporate governance practices and ensuring the best interest of the shareholders, the community, environment and its various stakeholders.
In compliance with the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has an optimum combination of executive and non–executive directors with a woman independent director and an executive Chairman.
(Chairman & Managing Director), four were non-executive independent (including one-woman independent director) and three were non-executive non-independent. The Board does not have any nominee director.
For more particulars about this please refer the Directors' Report.
As Table 1 shows, the Company is in compliance with the SEBI Listing Regulations.
scheduled in the month of March and September every year to facilitate the Board to devote additional time on strategic issues, regulatory updates etc.

consecutive meetings has been less than one hundred and twenty days.
shares meetings FY2022 (7)
held Whether attended Relationship with other in the Entitled attended in last 3 Name and Category directors Company to attend Attended the AGM years EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN &
MANAGING DIRECTOR Sanjiv Bajaj Brother of Rajiv Bajaj 414,404 7 7  100.00
INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS D J Balaji Rao - - 7 7  100.00 Dr. Gita Piramal* - - 7 6  94.24 Dr. Naushad Forbes - - 7 6  89.68 Anami N Roy - - 7 7  100.00
NON - EXECUTIVE NON - INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
Madhur Bajaj - 50,000 7 7  88.89 Rajiv Bajaj Brother of Sanjiv Bajaj 140,343 7 5  79.37 Manish Kejriwal - 7 7  83.33
*ceased to be a Director and ID w.e.f. 30 April 2022 (close of business hours).
The Company has not issued any convertible instruments and none of the Directors hold any convertible instrument.
Dr. Gita Piramal, who was holding office for a second term till 15 July 2024, resigned with effect from 30 April 2022, close of business hours, due to health reasons.
She has confirmed that there is no other material reason for resignation other than that mentioned in her resignation letter.
accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/bfs-resignation-of-id-28-april- 2022pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
needs of the Company. The present composition broadly meets this objective. The directors are persons of eminence in areas such as profession, business, industry, finance, law, administration, research, banking, etc.
and bring with them experience/skills which add value to the performance of the Board. The directors are selected purely on the basis of merit with no discrimination on race, colour, religion, gender or nationality.

A brief profile of our eminent directors is available on the website of the Company at https://www.bajajfinserv.
in/about-us-board-of-directors.
required in the context of the business and sector for it to function effectively and those actually available with the Board have been identified by the Board of Directors.
The chart/matrix of such core skills/expertise/competencies, along with the names of directors who possess such skills is given below:
Sr. No. Name of the director Core Skills/expertise/competencies
1. Sanjiv Bajaj Management & Governance;
Financial Services;
Consumer behaviour, sales, marketing and customer experience;
Technology and Innovation;
Understanding of accounting and financial statements;
Risk, Assurance and Internal Controls;
Regulatory, Public policy and economics;
Business Transformation & Strategy
2. D J Balaji Rao Management & Governance;
Financial Services;
Consumer behaviour, sales, marketing and customer experience;
Understanding of accounting and financial statements;
Risk, Assurance and Internal Controls; and Business Transformation & Strategy.
3. Dr. Gita Piramal Management & Governance;
Financial Services;
Understanding of accounting and financial statements;
Business Transformation & Strategy
4. Dr. Naushad Forbes Management & Governance;
Consumer behaviour, sales, marketing and customer experience;
Technology and Innovation;
Understanding of accounting and financial statements;
Risk, Assurance and Internal Controls;
Regulatory, Public policy and economics;

5. Anami N Roy Management & Governance;
Financial Services;
Understanding of accounting and financial statements;
Risk, Assurance and Internal Controls;
Human Resources
6. Madhur Bajaj Management & Governance;
Financial Services;
Consumer behaviour, sales, marketing and customer experience;
Regulatory, Public policy and economics;
Business Transformation & Strategy
7. Rajiv Bajaj Management & Governance;
Consumer behaviour, sales, marketing and customer experience;
Technology and Innovation;
Understanding of accounting and financial statements;
Risk, Assurance and Internal Controls;
Business Transformation & Strategy
8. Manish Kejriwal Management & Governance;
Financial Services;
Consumer behaviour, sales, marketing and customer experience;
Technology and Innovation;
Understanding of accounting and financial statements;
The Board hereby confirms that, in its opinion, the independent directors fulfil the conditions specified under the SEBI Listing Regulations and the Act and that they are independent of the management of the Company.
and non- independent) for every meeting of the Board and/or Committee of the Board (of which they are members) attended by them.
of the Act, to the non-executive directors as may be decided by the Board of Directors at its discretion from time to time during the period of five years from 1 April 2017 till 31 March 2022.
not exceeding one percent of the net profits of the Company for a further period of five years commencing from 1 April 2022 till 31 March 2027.
Presently, the non-executive directors of the Company are being paid commission at the rate of ₹ 200,000 per meeting of the Board and/or its Committees attended by them.

attendance and participation.
The Company does not have a stock option programme for any of its directors.
The Company believes that the Board should be transparently provided with all relevant information for the effective functioning of the Company.
especially those that require deliberation at the highest level. Presentations are also made to the Board by members of the senior management team/functional heads on important matters from time to time.
to such items as are required to be placed before the Board for its noting and/or approval, information is provided on various other significant items as well.
held on 16 March 2022, have expressed their satisfaction on the quality, quantity and timeliness of flow of information between the Company’s Management and the Board.
Pursuant to the various regulatory requirements and considering business needs, the Board is apprised on various matters, inter alia, covering the following:
independent directors) of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Board is of the opinion that quantum and risk presently covered is adequate.
One of the key functions of the Board of directors is selecting, compensating, monitoring, and when necessary, replacing key managerial personnel and overseeing succession planning.

appointment of Board/management is placed before the Board for its review.
Succession planning is a critical element of the human resources strategy of the Company. In selecting between a ‘build versus buy’ talent model, the Company places a larger emphasis on building talent.
This strategy is enabled by hiring most of our employees near the entry level and grooming them using a ‘grow from within’ career management framework.
section 8 of the Act and section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 have been excluded. Only the audit committee and the stakeholders’ relationship committee are considered for the purpose of reckoning committee positions.
None of the directors hold office as a director, including as an alternate director, in more than twenty companies at the same time. Further none of them has directorships in more than ten public companies.
or subsidiary companies of a public company are included; while directorships in dormant companies and companies under section 8 of the Act and section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 are excluded.
For the purpose of reckoning the directorships in listed companies, only equity listed companies have been considered.
companies or in more than three equity listed companies if he/she is a whole-time director/managing director in any listed company.
None of the directors was a member in more than ten committees, nor a chairperson in more than five committees across all public companies in which he/she was a director.
participation of the directors in Board/Committee meetings indicates their commitment and ability to devote adequate time and efforts to their responsibilities as Board/Committee members.

Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Bajaj Finance Ltd.
D J Balaji Rao Non-executive, independent Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Dr. Gita Piramal Non-executive, independent Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Dr. Naushad Forbes Bajaj Finserv Ltd. Non-executive, independent Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
Zodiac Clothing Co. Ltd.
Bajaj Auto Ltd.
Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd. (high value debt listed) Finolex Industries Ltd.
Glaxosmithkline Pharmaceuticals Ltd.
Bajaj Auto Ltd. Vice-Chairman, non-executive, non-independent Bajaj Electricals Ltd.
Madhur Bajaj Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Non-executive, non-independent Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.

Bajaj Electricals Ltd.
Rajiv Bajaj Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Non-executive, non-independent Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
Bharti Airtel Ltd. Non-executive, independent Manish Kejriwal Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Non-executive, non-independent Bajaj Holdings & Investment Ltd.
appointed or continuing as director of the Company by SEBI/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or such other statutory authority. The said certificate forms a part of this Annual Report.
The Board periodically reviews compliance reports with respect to the various laws applicable to the Company, as prepared and placed before it by the Management.
The SEBI Listing Regulations, requires listed companies to lay down a Code of Conduct for its directors and senior management, incorporating duties of directors prescribed in the Act.
be accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/miscellaneous-code-of- conductpdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
year ended 31 March 2022. A declaration to this effect signed by the Chairman & Managing Director forms a part of this Annual Report.
a special resolution by the company and disclosure of such appointment in the Board’s report. The maximum tenure of independent directors of the Company is in accordance with the Act.
accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/bfs-terms-of-id-appointment-2018- v1pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.

and group, etc.
During FY2022, the directors were updated extensively on the following through presentations at the Board meetings:
1. Financial budget of Company and its subsidiaries;
2. Operating plans and business updates of its subsidiaries;
3. Mutual Fund industry updates;
4. Key Risks faced by Company and/or its subsidiaries;
5. Climate change risks impacting insurance subsidiaries; and
6. Cyber security and risk mitigation measures.
https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/familiarisation-programme-for-independent- directors-v1pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
The Company has a whistle blower policy encompassing vigil mechanism pursuant to the requirements of the section 177(9) of the Act and regulation 22 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
safeguards against victimisation of directors/employees who avail of the mechanism and allows direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in exceptional cases.
been placed on the Company’s HRMS platform and also on the website, which can be accessed at https:// cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/whistle-blower-policy-website-v1pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
During FY2022, no employee was denied access to the Chairman of Audit Committee under this policy.
Further no complaints were received by Company as on 31 March 2022.
of Directors comprising of highly qualified persons and the brief profile of those directors are uploaded on respective company's website.

companies were duly complied, to the extent applicable.
and can be accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/policy-for-material- subsidiaries-13marchpdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
Finserv Direct Ltd. which ceased to be a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company but continues to be a subsidiary of the Company. The Company does not have any associate company.
Institutions Placement. Therefore, there are no details to be disclosed as per regulation 32(7A) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
basis and in the ordinary course of business, under the Act and were not material RPTs under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Approval of the Audit Committee was obtained for all related party transactions entered during FY2022.
Details of such transactions were placed before the Audit Committee for its noting/review on a quarterly basis.
more in the Company is set out separately in this Annual Report disclosures of RPTs on a consolidated basis are submitted to the stock exchanges on a half-yearly basis.
Company’s website at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/policy-on-materiality-of- and-dealing-with-related-party-transactions?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
independent directors. All members are non–executive directors, are financially literate and have accounting or related financial management expertise.
The Board reviews the working of the Committee from time to time to bring about greater effectiveness and to ensure compliance with the various requirements under the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
The terms of reference of the Committee are in accordance with the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
of the Committee can be accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/terms-of- reference-for-audit-committeepdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.

not more than one hundred and twenty days elapsed between any two consecutive meetings.
internal auditor, representative of statutory auditors, cost auditor and other senior executives who were considered necessary for providing inputs to the Committee.
The Company Secretary acted as the secretary to the Audit Committee.
Dr. Naushad Forbes, Chairman of the Committee, was present at the AGM which was held through video conferencing (VC) on 21 July 2021 to answer members’ queries.
Table 4: Composition of the Audit Committee and attendance record of the members for FY2022:
Consequent to resignation of Dr. Gita Piramal on 30 April 2022 (with effect from close of business hours), the Board of Directors appointed Pramit Jhaveri as the member of the Committee with effect from 1 May 2022.
During FY2022, the Board had accepted all recommendations of the Committee.
Pursuant to the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted a Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC).
devising a policy on Board diversity and such other matters as may be prescribed by Companies Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
it has introduced following additional term of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 January 2022:
recommended to the Board for appointment as an independent director shall have the capabilities identified in such description. For the purpose of identifying suitable candidates, the Committee may:

a. use the services of an external agencies, if required;
b. consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, having due regard to diversity; and c. consider the time commitments of the candidates.
In view of the above amendment, the terms of reference of NRC were suitably amended to incorporate the above. The terms of reference of the Committee can be accessed at https://cms-assets.
bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/bfs-terms-of-reference-for-nomination-and-remuneration- committeepdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
The Committee acts as the Compensation Committee for administration of the Company’s Employee Stock Option Scheme.
Meetings and attendance During FY2022, the Committee met three times, viz., 28 April 2021, 21 July 2021 and 16 March 2022.
D J Balaji Rao, Chairman of the Committee, was present at the AGM of the Company held through VC on 21 July 2021, to answer shareholders’ queries.
Manish Kejriwal Non-executive, non-independent 3 2
** inducted as members w.e.f. 1 October 2021.
* inducted as member w.e.f. 28 April 2021.
hours), the Board of Directors appointed Radhika Haribhakti as the member of the Committee with effect from 1 May 2022.
During FY2022, the Board had accepted all recommendations of the Committee.
The Company has in place performance evaluation criteria for Board, Committees, Chairperson and directors.
particularly the arrangements for management of risk and the steps needed to meet challenges from the competition, independence and Independent views and judgement, etc.
The said criteria is hosted on the website of the Company and can be accessed at https://cms-assets.
bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/evaluation-criteriapdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.

(RMC).
cyber security, the Board, at its meeting held on 21 July 2021, has amended the terms of reference of the Committee to include the following:
1. To formulate a detailed risk management policy which shall include:
particular including financial, operational, sectoral, sustainability (particularly, ESG related risks), information, cyber security risks or any other risk as may be determined by the Committee;
b) Measures for risk mitigation including systems and processes for internal control of identified risks;
c) Business continuity plan.
d) Mechanism for monitoring the risks faced by the subsidiaries, which could culminate into a risk of the Company.
2. To ensure that appropriate methodology, processes and systems are in place to monitor and evaluate risks associated with the business of the Company;
3. To monitor and oversee implementation of the risk management policy, including evaluating the adequacy of risk management systems;
4. To periodically review the risk management policy, at least once in two years, including by considering the changing industry dynamics and evolving complexity;
6. To coordinate its activities with other committees, in instances where there is any overlap with activities to such committees, as per the framework laid down by the Board of Directors.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/ bajajfinance/terms-of-reference-for-risk-management-committeepdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
The Company has a Board approved risk management framework.
Meetings and attendance During FY2022, the Committee met two times, viz., 17 September 2021 and 16 March 2022.

Further, the Board of Directors inducted Pramit Jhaveri as member of the Committee effective 1 May 2022.
substantially remains with the subsidiaries, periodically certain relevant risk aspects of select subsidiaries are presented and discussed.
During FY2022, the Board accepted all recommendations of the Committee.
During FY2022, the Company did not trade in or have any exposure in the commodities market.
Pursuant to the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company has constituted a Stakeholders Relationship Committee.
https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/terms-of-reference-for-stakeholders-relationship- committeepdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
More details on this subject and on shareholders’ related matters including unclaimed suspense account have been furnished in General Shareholder Information.
During FY2022, the Committee met once on 20 January 2022 to review the status of investors’ services rendered. The secretarial auditor as well as the Company Secretary were present at the said meeting.
The Committee was apprised of the major developments on matters relating to investors. In addition, the Committee also considered matters that can facilitate better investor services and relations.
During FY2022, meeting of senior executives of RTA viz., KFin Technologies Ltd., (‘KFin’), with few Committee members was also organised to discuss on service standards and operations at KFin.
Dr. Gita Piramal, Chairperson of the Committee, was present at the AGM of the Company held through VC on 21 July 2021, to answer shareholders’ queries.

member of the Committee effective from 1 May 2022.
0 2 0 2 0 Uma Shende, Company Secretary acts as the Compliance Officer.
Share Certificate Issuance Committee to approve issuing of duplicate share certificate in lieu of original share certificate(s) that were lost or misplaced.
dated 25 January 2022, has mandated listed entities to issue of securities in dematerialised form only while processing any service request including issue of duplicate share certificate.
Meeting and attendance During FY2022, the Committee met once on 16 March 2022.

any loans to any of its directors.
Criteria of making payments to non-executive directors Non-executive directors of the Company play a crucial role in the independent functioning of the Board.
They bring in an external perspective to decision-making and provide leadership and strategic guidance while maintaining objective judgment. They also oversee the corporate governance framework of the Company.
can be accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/remuneration-policy-21- v1pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
Form MGT-7 (annual return) which is hosted on the website of the Company and can be accessed at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports.
superannuation benefits payable in the form of an annuity from an approved life insurance company, which forms part of the perquisites allowed to him.
directors of BFL. As non-executive director of Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd. (BHFL), he has been paid sitting fee of ₹ 17 lakh (previous year ₹ 7 lakh) for FY2022. He has not drawn remuneration from any other subsidiary.
Management discussion and analysis This is given as a separate section in the Annual Report.
of the Company at large. As per the disclosure submitted by senior management, there were no such transactions during FY2022.
(‘Code of Conduct’), as well as Code of Practices and Procedures for Fair Disclosure of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (‘Code of Fair Disclosure’).

aware the designated employees of their obligations under the SEBI PIT Regulations.
terms regulation 9A(4) of the SEBI PIT Regulations and confirmed that the systems for internal control with respect to the SEBI PIT Regulations are adequate and are operating effectively.
Means of communication Quarterly, half-yearly, and annual financial results are published in Business Standard, Sakal and Lokmat.
An abridged version of the financial results is also published in all editions of Mint, Hindustan Times, Hindu Business Line, Economic Times, Financial Express and Ananda Bazar Patrika.
investors, schedule transcripts and audio recordings of earnings call with investors, matters concerning the shareholders, details of the contact persons, etc.
Sections 20 and 136 of the Act, read with relevant rules, permit companies to service delivery of documents electronically to the registered email addresses of the members.
Company proposes to send all correspondence/ communications through email to those members who have registered their email addresses with their depository participant’s/ Company’s share transfer agent.
letters, half yearly communications, etc. in electronic form to the email addresses provided by the members and made available by them to the Company through the depositories.
All financial and other vital official news releases and documents under the SEBI Listing Regulations are also communicated to the concerned stock exchanges, besides being placed on the Company’s website.

Details of the AGMs held during last three years:
13th AGM – 21 July 2020 NIL Particulars % Favour % Against Through VC at 4.15 p.m.
Not Applicable Deemed Venue:
14th AGM - 21 July 2021 NIL Particulars % Favour % Against Through VC at 12.15 p.m.
Not Applicable Deemed Venue:
majority by the members. The percentage of votes in favour, when reckoned to the exclusion of promoters/ promoter group category has been quite significant.
bajaj-finserv and written transcript of the same can be accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/ content/bajajfinance/bfs-14th-agm-transcript-2021pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.

same are given below:
Postal Ballot notice dated 17 September 2021:
Items of special business:
W100621) as statutory auditors to fill the casual vacancy caused by resignation of S R B C & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountant.
a. Details of voting:
accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/fy-21-e-voting-and-scrutinizers- report-2021pdf-1?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
As on the date of this report, following special resolutions are proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:
1. Re-appointment of Sanjivnayan Rahulkumar Bajaj (DIN:00014615) as Managing Director of the Company for a period of five years w.e.f. 1 April 2022;
2. Re-appointment of Dr. Naushad Darius Forbes (DIN: 00630825) as an Independent Director of the Company for a second term of five consecutive years w.e.f. 13 September 2022;
3. Appointment of Pramit Shashikant Jhaveri (DIN:00186137) as an Independent Director for a term of five consecutive years w.e.f. 1 May 2022;
5. Approval for payment of commission to non-executive Directors for a period of five years commencing from 1 April 2022.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, the Company provides facility to the members to exercise votes through electronic voting system (‘remote e-voting’), in addition to physical ballot.
members/beneficial owners through email at their registered email addresses and through physical copy to the members who have not registered their email addresses.

reckoned on the equity shares held by the members as on the cut-off date.
exchanges. The resolution, if passed by requisite majority, is deemed to have been passed on the last date specified by the Company for receipt of duly completed postal ballot forms or remote e-voting.
also made for other members to register their e-mail address to receive the postal ballot notice and cast their vote online.
on the Company by any of the stock exchanges, SEBI or any other statutory authority, in any matter related to capital markets, during the last three years.
The Chairman & Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer have certified to the Board with regard to the financial statements and other matters as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Governance during FY2022. The Company has been regularly submitting the quarterly corporate governance compliance report to the stock exchanges as required under regulation 27(2) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 During FY2022, the Company has not received any complaint under this Act.
2021 by inducting Priyanka Mitra as member of Committee in place of Sonal Tiwari who has resigned from the services of the Company.
Fees paid to Statutory Auditors S R B C & CO LLP were appointed as statutory auditors of the Company, its subsidiaries till 13 November 2021.
A. F ees paid to S R B C & CO LLP, on a consolidated basis, estwhile statutory auditors including all entities in their network firm/entity of which they are a part, is given below:
Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP were appointed as statutory auditors of the Company effective 17 November 2021.

entity of which they are a part, is given below:
relating to corporate governance laid down in Part E of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations. This is annexed to the Directors’ Report.
with all the mandatory requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations including but not limited to the provisions of regulations 17 to 27 and 46(2)(b) to (i) of the said Regulations.
Discretionary The Company has also complied with the discretionary requirements as under:
A half-yearly declaration of financial performance including summary of significant events in the preceding six months is sent to each household of members.
2. Modified opinion(s) in audit report The Company confirms that its financial statements are with unmodified audit opinion.
3. Reporting of internal auditor The internal auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.
The Board of Directors Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
members and senior managerial personnel have affirmed compliance with the code of conduct of the company laid down for them for the year ended 31 March 2022.

List of key policies of Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Sr.

GENERAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 15th Annual General Meeting (AGM) Day and Date Thursday, 28 July 2022 Time 12.15 p.m.(IST) Venue/Mode Virtual, Registered Office of the Company at Bajaj Auto Ltd. Complex, Mumbai -Pune Road, Pune – 411 035 (Deemed venue) Financial Year 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022 Tentative meeting schedule for considering financial related matters for
FY2023 Type of meeting Particulars Indicative month To review and approve the unaudited financial results for the quarter July 2022 ending 30 June 2022, subject to limited review To review and approve the unaudited financial results for the quarter October 2022 Audit Committee and and half-year ending 30 September 2022, subject to limited review Board To review and approve the unaudited financial results for the quarter January/early February 2023 and nine months ending 31 December 2022, subject to limited review To review and approve audited annual results for the year ending April/early May 2023 31 March 2023, subject to audit
In addition to the above, Board meetings are convened in March and September to discuss strategy, operating plans and other matters.
Additional committee meetings are also convened as and when deemed necessary.
the Company (‘Bajaj Finserv’, ‘Bajaj Finserv Ltd.', ‘BFS’) viz., KFin Technologies Private Ltd. has been changed to KFin Technologies Ltd. ('KFin') w.e.f. 24 February 2022.
(the 'SEBI Listing Regulations’), continues to be the Registrar and Share Transfer Agent and handle all relevant corporate registry services.
activities The Company has agreed service timelines and standards for various shareholder related service with KFin.
and other measures to strengthen shareholders related services. In addition, the activities at KFin are also reviewed by the internal audit team.
During FY2022, a meeting of Stakeholders and Relationship Committee ('SRC') members with a few senior officials of KFin was organised to get an overview of the activities at their end.

of face value of ₹ 5 for FY2022, subject to approval by members at the ensuing AGM.
1 August 2022 and /or Tuesday, 2 August 2022, to all eligible Members holding shares as of the end of the day on Friday, 1 July 2022 ('record date').
The SEBI Listing Regulations read with SEBI circular dated 20 April 2018, require companies to use any electronic mode of payment approved by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for making payment to members.
the members are available. Where dividend payments are made through electronic mode, intimation regarding such remittance will be sent separately to the members.
non-negotiable instruments/warrants with bank account details printed thereon. In case of non-availability of bank account details, address of the members will be printed on such payment instruments.
For enabling payment of dividend through electronic mode, members holding shares in physical form are requested to send form ISR-1 along with requisite documents to KFin.
The form can be downloaded from the website of the Company at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv- shareholders-information-listing-on-stock-exchange and KFin at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc.
In case of members holding shares in demat mode, they are requested to update details with their respective depository participant.
The dividend, if declared will be taxable in the hands of the members. The TDS rate would vary depending on the residential status of the members and the documents submitted by them and accepted by the Company.
For more details, members are requested to refer to the Notice of AGM.
Government. Accordingly, unpaid/unclaimed dividends for FY2008 to FY2014 have already been transferred by the Company to the said Fund from FY2015 onwards.
due for transfer. Communication are being sent to members, who have not yet claimed dividend for FY2015, requesting them to claim the same as well as unpaid dividend, if any, for subsequent years.

coming years including current year:
finserv-shareholders-information-listing-on-stock-exchange and also on website specified by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/services.html.
Initiatives for reduction of unclaimed dividend The Company with a view to reduce the quantum of unclaimed dividend has undertaken several steps.
Company/KFin for other service request to claim their dividend, if any. The amount is remitted based on the verification of the documents and bonafides of the claim.
The Company will endeavor to undertake additional initiatives in this regard.
which dividend has not been paid or claimed for seven consecutive years or more shall be transferred to the Demat account of the IEPF Authority, within 30 days of expiry of said seven years.
dividend are due for transfer to IEPF will also be made available on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-shareholders-information-listing-on-stock-exchange.
made available on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-shareholders-information- listing-on-stock-exchange so as to facilitate the easy refund procedure for its investors/claimants.
Members are requested to get in touch with the nodal officer for further details on the subject at investors@bajajfinserv.in / uma.shende@bajajfinserv.in.

SEBI has mandated transfer of securities only in dematerialised form with effect from 1 April 2019.
Thereafter, SEBI had fixed 31 March 2021 as the cut-off date for re-lodgement of deficient transfer deeds.
Accordingly, with effect 1 April 2021, share transfers in physical form are prohibited under any circumstances and the same shall be processed only in dematerialised form.
dematerialisation/rematerialisation are processed at KFin. The work related to dematerialisation/ rematerialisation is handled by KFin through connectivity with NSDL and CDSL.
rematerialised during FY2022 (previous year - 5 shares). Shares held in physical and electronic mode as on 31 March 2022 are given in Table 1.
The equity shares of the Company are listed on BSE Ltd. ('BSE') and National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
('NSE') and are frequently traded. The equity shares of the Company were not suspended from trading during the year on account of corporate actions or otherwise.
Physical 9,191,311 818 5.78 9,298,521 921 5.84 Demat:
NSDL 145,515,678 122,637 91.44 145,677,121 107,386 91.54 CDSL 4,430,455 132,695 2.78 4,161,802 94,491 2.62
Sub Total 149,946,133 255,332 94.22 149,838,923 201,877 94.16 Total 159,137,444 256,150 100.00 159,137,444 202,798 100.00 Stock code 1. BSE Ltd. (BSE) 532978 2. National Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE) BAJAJFINSV 3. ISIN for depositories (NSDL and CDSL) INE918I01018 4. Bloomberg BJFIN IN BJFS.BO
5. Reuters BJFS.NS
Listing on stock exchanges Shares of the Company are currently listed on the following stock exchanges:
400 051 Annual listing fees, as prescribed, have been paid to the said stock exchanges up to 31 March 2023.

BSE NSE Closing Month High Low High Low BSE Sensex Apr-2021 11,299.65 9,047.10 11,300.00 9,035.85 48,782.36 May-2021 12,021.00 10,710.40 12,024.95 10,814.15 51,937.44 Jun-2021 12,529.15 11,432.90 12,520.00 11,430.50 52,482.71 Jul-2021 14,925.10 11,654.80 14,925.00 11,651.00 52,586.84 Aug-2021 17,195.00 13,866.20 17,200.00 13,852.75 57,552.39 Sep-2021 18,813.80 16,488.05 18,813.00 16,484.05 59,126.36 Oct-2021 19,319.95 17,051.00 19,325.00 17,050.00 59,306.93 Nov-2021 18,511.00 16,275.85 18,511.00 16,273.65 57,064.87 Dec-2021 17,888.80 15,460.00 17,890.00 15,450.00 58,253.82 Jan-2022 18,616.10 15,019.00 18,621.00 15,012.00 58,014.17 Feb-2022 16,748.00 15,200.55 16,750.00 15,200.00 56,247.28 Mar-2022 17,300.00 13,957.00 17,300.00 13,799.90 58,568.51 Chart: Performance in comparison to BSE Sensex Bajaj Finserv Ltd. stock performance Vs BSE Sensex, indexed to 100 as on 31 March 2021 200 180 160 140 120 100 100 8 -0 62 12-raM 12-rpA 12-yaM 12-nuJ 12-luJ 12-guA 12-peS 12-tcO 12-voN 12-ceD 22-naJ 22-beF 22-raM
BSE BFS

Table 4 gives the data according to size classes.
scheme or proposal involving mobilisation of funds in India or abroad. As such, the Company does not have list of credit ratings under regulation 34 read with schedule V to SEBI Listing Regulations.
specifically look into and resolve grievances of security-holders. The Composition of the Committee and details on investor complaints received during the year are given in Corporate Governance Report.

nomination. The forms prescribed for these purposes are given below:
Members may access the above forms from website of the company at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv- shareholders-information-listing-on-stock-exchange.
the RTA, unless the KYC details are updated. Further, such member will not be eligible to receive dividend in physical mode.
Benami Transactions (Prohibitions) Act, 1988 and/or Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 after 31 December 2025.
In view of the above, the Company had sent communication to members holding shares in physical form requesting them to update the said details.
circular, KFin has hosted the Investor Charter on its website and has also displayed the same at prominent places in offices, etc.
succeeding month, as per the format prescribed thereunder with effect from 1 January 2022. KFin, being registered RTA has confirmed compliances with aforesaid circular, to the extent applicable.
actions to be taken against listed companies for failure to redress investor grievances. The Company is in compliance with said circular.
renewal/exchange of securities certificate, sub-division, splitting of shares certificate, transmission, transposition, consolidation of securities certificate, etc.
For enabling the shareholders to demat their securities, the RTA shall issue a ‘Letter of Confirmation’ in lieu of physical share certificates to physical shareholders for enabling them to dematerialise the securities.

were transferred.
Status of Unclaimed Suspense Account as on 31 March 2022 is given below:
The Company, acting as a trustee in respect of the unclaimed shares, follows the modalities for the operation of the said account in the manner set out in regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The shares lying in the aforesaid account will be transferred to the concerned member on lodging of the claim and after proper verification. Till such time, the voting rights on these shares will remain frozen.
of AGM by logging on the website of KFin https://emeetings.kfintech.com/ using secure login credentials provided for e-voting.
Pursuant to MCA circulars, the company will also provide two-way video conferencing or WebEx facility to the members for participating in the 15th AGM.
The modalities for participation in the AGM are spelt out in Notice of AGM.
Outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/Warrants The Company does not have any outstanding convertible instruments/ADRs/GDRs/Warrants as on date.
The Company, being a financial service company, is not exposed to commodity price/foreign exchange risk and hedging activities under regulation 34 of Schedule V of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Plant Location Bajaj Finserv Ltd. being an unregistered Core Investment company does not have any manufacturing plant.

KFin Technologies Ltd.
Unit: Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Serilingampally, Hyderabad, Telangana- 500 032 Contact details:
Company Corporate Office Extn.
Viman Nagar, Pune–411 014 Contact details:
Website: https://www.bajajfinserv.in/corporate-bajaj-finserv Weblinks of few important circulars referred in this report are given below:

DIRECTORS’ REPORT Dear Members, Your directors present the fifteenth Annual Report along with the audited standalone and consolidated
financial statements for FY2022.
At the outset, your directors express their profound grief on sad demise of Shri Rahul Bajaj, the iconic leader of the Company, who passed away on 12 February 2022.
He lived an extraordinary life. He was the architect of one of the most respected business groups in the country, a vocal proponent of entrepreneurship, and a voice of the industry at large.
He stood for what he believed, a man driven by values, and bold in both expression and action.
While he remained the torchbearer of a family legacy that dates back to the founding days of our country, he championed the creation of a new India.
While his passing away has left a huge void amongst us, he leaves behind an unparalleled foundation for all of us to build upon.
The Board of Directors ('Board') places on record its whole-hearted appreciation of the invaluable contribution made by him to the spectacular success of the Company and the Group over several decades.
Financial results The financial results of the Company are elaborated in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
The highlights of the standalone financial results are as under:

Closing balances in reserve/other equity:
Total 4,288.63 3,721.35 Note: detailed movement of above reserves can be seen in ‘Statement of Changes in Equity’.
The highlights of the consolidated financial results are as under:
financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of the subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company.
is available on the website of the Company at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/ miscellaneous-divident-policypdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.

FY2022 is ₹ 63.66 crore.
The dividend recommended is in accordance with the principles and criteria set out in the dividend distribution policy of the Company.
The dividend, if declared at the ensuing AGM will be taxable in the hands of the members of the Company pursuant to Income Tax Act, 1961. For further details on taxability, please refer Notice of AGM.
FY2022 was once again dominated by the Covid-19 pandemic as new waves of infection swept across countries. In India, the second wave (called ‘Delta’) proved far more deadly than the first that struck in 2020.
highly transmissible, Omicron was not as clinically deadly as Delta. While many got infected, they also recovered without hospitalisation and had lower mortality.
measures adopted to steer through this continuing crisis have been discussed in detail in Management Discussion and Analysis.
The Company is termed as an unregistered Core Investment Company under the Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions – 2016 dated 13 August 2020.
The Company has established several policies covering the Code of Conduct for its directors and employees including anti-corruption clauses, as well as policies for Fair and Responsible Workplace Practices.
These policies are integrated into business operations. The Company has also signed the following charters of CII in this regard, which further strengthens the Company’s commitment to these policies.
which available on the website of the Company at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor- relations-annual-reports.
Bank) Directions, 2016, as amended, and the holding Company for the various financial services businesses under the Bajaj Group.
Detailed information on the operations of the different business lines and state of affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis.

Following are the subsidiary and joint venture companies of the Company as at 31 March 2022:
to the tune of ₹ 2.69 crore by BFL, BFS-D ceased to be a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. As at 31 March 2022, BFS and BFL respectively hold 80.10% and 19.90% of equity share capital in BFS-D.
During FY2022, the following companies were incorporated as wholly owned subsidiaries:
Company is covered in the Management Discussion and Analysis Report and in Form AOC-1 of consolidated financial statements.
https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports under the dropdown of Bajaj Finserv Subsidiaries.
website at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/policy-for-material-subsidiaries- 13marchpdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
In terms of the aforesaid Policy BFL, BAGIC, BALIC and BHFL are material subsidiaries of the Company.

A. Change in directorate:
i. Appointment/re-appointment of independent director:
and Remuneration Committee (NRC), appointed Pramit Jhaveri (DIN 00186137) as an additional and independent director for a period of 5 years w.e.f. 1 May 2022.
The Board is of the opinion that Pramit Jhaveri is a person of integrity, expertise, and has relevant experience to serve the Company as an independent director.
6(4) of Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, he will undertake the test within the prescribed time limit.
appointed Radhika Haribhakti (DIN 02409519) as an additional and independent director for a period of 5 years w.e.f. 1 May 2022.
The Board is of the opinion that Radhika Haribhakti is a person of integrity, expertise, and has relevant experience to serve the Company as an independent director.
pursuant to rule 6(4) of Companies (Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended. However, she has on a voluntary basis appeared and cleared the proficiency test.
based on the recommendation of NRC, re-appointed Dr. Naushad Forbes (DIN 00630825) as an independent director for a second term of five years w.e.f. 13 September 2022.
Accordingly, approval of the members for the aforementioned appointments/re-appointment are being sought through postal ballot.
ii. Resignation:
Dr. Gita Piramal (DIN 01080602) resigned as non-executive and independent director w.e.f. close of business hours on 30 April 2022 due to health reasons.
She has confirmed that there is no other material reason for her resignation other than mentioned above.
She also ceased to be the Chairperson of Stakeholders Relationship Committee, member of Audit Committee and Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
The Board places on record its sincere appreciation for the valuable contribution made by her during her tenure on the Board.
iii. Director liable to retire by rotation:
eligible, has offered his candidature for re-appointment. Prescribed details of Manish Kejriwal are given in the Notice of AGM.

recommendations of the NRC, subject to necessary approvals of the members.
ii. Uma Shende was appointed as the Company Secretary w.e.f. 1 October 2021 in place of Sonal Tiwari who resigned from the services of the Company w.e.f. 11 August 2021.
The independent directors have submitted a declaration of independence, stating that they meet the criteria of independence provided under section 149(6) of the Act and regulation 16 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
(Appointment and Qualifications of Directors) Rules, 2014, as amended, relating to inclusion of their name in the databank of independent directors.
them meeting the prescribed criteria of independence, after undertaking due assessment of the veracity of the same in terms of the requirements of regulation 25 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
On recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC), the Board has framed a Remuneration Policy. This policy, inter alia, provides:
(a) The criteria for determining qualifications, positive attributes and independence of directors; and (b) Policy on remuneration of directors, key managerial personnel and other employees.
The policy is directed towards a compensation philosophy and structure that will reward and retain talent;
and provides for a balance between fixed and incentive pay reflecting short and long-term performance objectives appropriate to the working of the Company and its goals.
The said policy is placed on the Company’s website at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/ bajajfinance/remuneration-policy-21-v1pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
As per the requirements of the SEBI Listing Regulations, details of all pecuniary relationship or transactions of the non-executive directors vis-à-vis the Company are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report.
All Board members and senior management personnel have affirmed compliance with the Company’s Code of Conduct for FY2022.
A declaration to this effect signed by the Chairman & Managing Director forms a part of this Annual Report.
filed with the Registrar of Companies/Ministry of Corporate Affairs, is placed on Company’s website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports.
Seven (7) meetings of the Board were held during FY2022. Details of the meetings and attendance thereat forms part of the Corporate Governance Report.

the financial statements.
In accordance with the provisions of section 134(3)(c) of the Act and based on the information provided by the management, the directors confirm that:
(i) in the preparation of the annual accounts, the applicable Accounting Standards have been followed along with proper explanation relating to material departures;
estimates that are reasonable and prudent so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company at the end of the financial year and of the profit of the Company for FY2022;
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
(iv) they have prepared the annual accounts on a going concern basis;
(vi) they have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the provisions of all applicable laws and that such systems are adequate and are operating effectively.
Audit committee The Audit Committee was reconstituted at the Board meeting held on 28 April 2022 effective 1 May 2022.
The present composition of the Committee is Dr. Naushad Forbes as Chairman and D J Balaji Rao, Pramit Jhaveri and Manish Kejriwal as other members.
All recommendations of the Audit Committee were accepted by the Board.
The brief terms of reference, number of meetings and attendance record of members for FY2022 are given in the Corporate Governance Report.
Details of loans, guarantees and investments, if any, covered under the provisions of section 186 of the Act are provided in the notes to financial statements.
encouraging employees to align individual performance with the Company’s objectives, and promoting increased participation by them in the growth of the Company.
(BFS ESOS). The same is in compliance with SEBI (Share Based Employee Benefits & Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021.

accessed at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports.
Grant wise details of options vested, exercised and cancelled are provided in the notes to the standalone financial statements.
The Company has not issued any sweat equity shares or equity shares with differential voting rights during FY2022.
The paid-up equity share capital as on 31 March 2022 was ₹ 79.57 crore consisting of 159,137,444 fully paid- up equity shares of face value of ₹ 5/-.
compliance with the applicable provisions of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations. Prior omnibus approval of the Audit Committee is obtained for all related party transactions which are foreseen and of repetitive nature.
Pursuant to the said omnibus approval, details of transaction entered into is also reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
business of the Company under the Act and not material under the SEBI Listing Regulations. None of the transactions required members’ prior approval under the Act or SEBI Listing Regulations.
statements. There were no transaction requiring disclosure under section 134(3)(h) of the Act. Hence, the prescribed Form AOC–2 does not form a part of this Report.
https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/policy-on-materiality-of-and-dealing-with- related-party-transactions?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
There have been no material changes and commitments, affecting the financial position of the Company, which occurred between the end of the financial year of the Company and the date of this Report.
services activities which produce green energy. A summary of the performance of the wind power division is available in the Management Discussion and Analysis which forms part of this Annual Report.
(A) Conservation of energy- (i) Steps taken or impact on conservation of energy;
• Optimum usage of parking and common area lights.
• Elevator usage optimization.
(ii) Steps taken by the Company for utilising alternate sources of energy;
• T he Company has installed a renewable energy (wind) project with a capacity of 65.2 MW.

State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd.
It, however, is not allowed to make captive use of wind energy, because new regulations do not permit the same where monthly demand is less than 700 KW.
• The Company has installed LED lamps in place of tube lights and CFL, thereby reducing energy consumption in lighting by around 58,762 units during the year.
• The Company has also installed solar panels for energy conservation.
(iii) Capital investment on energy conservation equipments;
• The amount of capital investment made by the Company on energy conservation equipments during FY2022 was approximately ₹ 50 lakh.
highlighted in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report which is available on the Company's website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports.
Being essentially an investment company, no particulars regarding technology absorption are provided considering, the nature of operations of the Company to be given in this Report.
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo There were no foreign exchange earnings during FY2022, as well as during FY2021.
Total foreign exchange outflow during FY2022 was ₹ 0.28 crore, as against ₹ 0.88 crore in FY2021.
identification, assessment and control of elements of risk, which in the opinion of the Board may threaten the existence of the Company, is given in the Corporate Governance Report.
Anami Roy as members. During FY2022, the Committee met thrice. The details of meetings and attendance thereat forms part of the Annual Report on CSR activities.
The Board, at its meeting held on 28 October 2021, has appointed Dr. Naushad Forbes as Chairman of the committee w.e.f. 29 October 2021.
The CSR obligation of the Company for FY2022 was ₹ 0.44 crore. As on 31 March 2022, total amount spent on CSR activities by Company was ₹ 0.45 crore.
In terms of the provisions of the Act read with Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, the Annual Report on CSR activities is annexed to this Report.
Detailed information on CSR Policy, its salient features, CSR initiatives undertaken during the year, details pertaining to spent and unspent amount forms part of Annual Report on CSR activities.
The CSR policy is hosted on the Company’s website and can be accessed at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.
in/is/content/bajajfinance/miscellaneous-csr-policy-21pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
Further, the Chief Financial Officer has certified that the funds disbursed have been utilised for the purpose and in the manner approved by the Board for the FY2022.

out by the Board only and the NRC will only review its implementation and compliance.
from Management. On the basis of the report of the performance evaluation, it shall be determined whether to extend or continue the term of appointment of independent director.
Accordingly, the Board has carried out an annual performance evaluation of its own performance, that of its Committees, Chairperson and individual directors.
The manner in which formal annual evaluation of performance was carried out by the Board for FY2022 is given below:
• The NRC at its meeting held on 21 May 2020, reviewed the criteria for performance evaluation.
The criteria is available on the website of the Company at https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/ bajajfinance/evaluation-criteriapdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
for seeking confidential feedback of the directors with regards to the performance of the Board, its Committees, the Chairperson and individual directors.
performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees, Chairperson and individual directors for the year 2021-22 and a consolidated report thereof were arrived at.
• The report of performance evaluation so arrived at was then discussed and noted by the Board at its meeting held on 16 March 2022.
• The NRC reviewed the implementation and compliance of the performance evaluation at its meeting held on 16 March 2022.
• Based on the report and evaluation, the Board and NRC at their respective meetings held on 16 March 2022, determined that the appointment of all independent directors may continue.
carried out by the independent directors at their separate meeting held on 16 March 2022 have been furnished in a separate paragraph elsewhere in this Report.
• During FY2022, the criteria and process followed by the Company was reviewed by the NRC which opined these to be satisfactory.
Other than Chairman of the Board and NRC, no other Director has access to the individual ratings given by directors.
During FY2022, no significant or material orders were passed by any regulator or court or tribunal, impacting the going concern status and Company’s operations in future.
and timely preparation of reliable financial information. Internal financial controls not only require the system to be designed effectively but also to be tested for operating effectiveness periodically.

commensurate with the size, scale and complexity of operations.
behaviour, actual or suspected fraud or violation of the Company’s Code of Conduct or ethics policy and leak or suspected leak of unpublished price sensitive information.
representatives from within the organization. The Audit Committee reviews the functioning of the vigil mechanism/whistle blower policy once a year.
https://cms-assets.bajajfinserv.in/is/content/bajajfinance/whistle-blower-policy-website- v1pdf?scl=1&fmt=pdf.
More details are given in Corporate Governance Report.
included in this Annual Report, along with the Management Discussion and Analysis and report on General Shareholder Information.
The Chairman & Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer have certified to the Board with regard to the financial statements and other matters as required under regulation 17(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
A certificate from the statutory auditors of the Company regarding compliance of conditions of corporate governance is annexed to this Report.
Pursuant to the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations, the independent directors must hold at least one meeting in a year without the presence of non–independent directors and members of the Management.
Accordingly, independent directors of the Company met on 16 March 2022 and:
• noted the report of performance evaluation of the Chairman & Managing Director of the Company for the year 2021-22;
• reviewed the performance of non-independent directors and the Board as a whole;
• reviewed the performance of the Chairman of the Board, taking into account the views of non-executive directors;
and the Board that is necessary for the Board to effectively and reasonably perform their duties; and
• noted the succession planning.
The independent directors present elected Dr. Naushad Forbes as Chairman for the meeting. All independent directors were present at the meeting except Dr. Gita Piramal to whom leave of absence was granted.

voluntarily adopt to submit the BRSR for FY2022 in place of Business Responsibility Report.
ESG endeavor has been hosted on Company’s website and can be accessed at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/ finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports.
Provisions relating to maintenance of cost records as specified by the Central Government under section 148 of the Act, as applicable to the Company have been complied with for the FY2022.
the Board of Directors (SS–1) and General Meetings (SS–2) read with the MCA circulars granting exemptions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.
governance processes followed by the Company. Key elements of Internal Audit are assurance on Controls, Governance and Compliance, Business Risk Assessment and its Mitigation and Process Optimization.
At the beginning of each financial year, an audit plan is rolled out after approval of the Audit Committee.
internal controls. Significant audit observations, corrective and preventive actions thereon are presented to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
E300003) were appointed by the members for a term of five consecutive years to hold the office from the conclusion of 10th AGM held on 19 July 2017 till the conclusion of 15th AGM.
Statutory Central Auditors (SCAs)/Statutory Auditors (SAs) of Commercial Banks (excluding RRBs), UCBs and NBFCs (including HFCs).
policy and had, therefore, tendered their resignation vide their letter dated 16 September 2021 effective from 13 November 2021.
their above said letter. The copy of the said letter which has been filed with stock exchanges is available on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/bfs-change-in-statutory-auditor.pdf.

March 2022 with approval of the members.
At the ensuing AGM, approval of the members is being sought for their appointment as Statutory Auditor for remaining term i.e., from conclusion of 15th AGM till conclusion of 19th AGM.
The statutory audit report for the FY2022, is unmodified i.e., does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark or disclaimer.
Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014, the Board has appointed Shyamprasad D. Limaye, Practising Company Secretary (FCS No. 1587, CP No. 572), to undertake secretarial audit of the Company.
A report from the secretarial auditor in the prescribed Form MR-3 is annexed to this Report.
audit report of BALIC, BAGIC and BHFL (a high value debt listed company) for the FY2022 is placed on Company’s website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports.
has been issued by Shyamprasad D. Limaye and the same will be submitted with the stock exchanges within the given timeframe. The report will also be made available on the website of the Company.
The secretarial audit report for the FY2022, is unmodified i.e., it does not contain any qualification, reservation or adverse remark or disclaimer.
remuneration of ₹ 65,000 plus taxes, out-of-pocket, travelling and living expenses, subject to ratification by the shareholders at the ensuing AGM.
Accordingly, a resolution seeking members’ ratification for the remuneration payable to the Cost Auditor is included in the Notice convening the AGM.
• The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are placed on the Company’s website at https://www.bajajfinserv.in/finserv-investor-relations-annual-reports.
of remuneration of directors and key managerial personnel to median remuneration of employees, percentage increase in the median remuneration, are annexed to this Report.
Rules, 2014, containing details prescribed under rule 5(3) of the said Rules, which form part of this Report, will be made available to any member on request, as per provisions of section 136(1) of the Act.

134(3)(ca) of the Act, have not been furnished.
• The Directors’ Responsibility Statement, as required by section 134(5) of the Act, forms a part of this Report.
• There is no change in the nature of business of the Company during FY2022.
• A Cash Flow Statement for the FY2022 is attached to the Balance Sheet.
• Disclosure as required under section 197(14) of the Act has been made for the Managing Director, as per the terms of his appointment, for the commission or remuneration drawn from subsidiary companies i.e.
Bajaj Finance Ltd. and Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd., is covered under Corporate Governance Report.
• Neither any application was made, nor any proceeding is pending under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 during FY2022 against the Company.
• The Company has not accepted any deposits covered under Chapter V of the Act.
• The securities of the Company were not suspended from trading during the year.
Redressal) Act, 2013, the Company has a policy on Prevention of Sexual Harassment at Workplace and has constituted an Internal Complaints Committee. There was no case reported during FY2022.
The Board places its gratitude and appreciation for the support and co–operation from its members and other regulators.
The Board also places on record its sincere appreciation for the commitment and hard work put in by the management and the employees in these trying times.

31 MARCH 2022
1. Brief outline of Company’s CSR Policy Introduction The vision and philosophy of late Shri Jamnalal Bajaj, the founder of Bajaj Group, guide the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities of the group. He embodied the concept of trusteeship in business and common good, and laid the foundation for ethical, value-based and transparent functioning.
or conventional economic indices. It is best reflected in the difference that business and industry make to the lives of people.
more than a corporate identity. It is a catalyst for social empowerment and the reason behind the smiles that light up a million faces.
It is this goodwill that has made us work towards ‘Activating Lives’.
Guiding principles:
The Company believes that social investments should:
• Benefit Generations: Investment in resource creation’ for use over generations. The Company tries to identify sustainable projects which will benefit the society over long periods.
• Educate for Self-Reliance and Growth: To usher in a growth-oriented society and thereby a very strong and prosperous nation, by educating each and every Indian.
• Promote Health: Good health is a pre-requisite for both education and productivity.
• Encourage for Self Help: To guide and do hand holding for self-help, individually and collectively to create excellence for self and for the team.
• Be Focused: Activities should be focused around locations where it has a presence and hence can effectively guide, monitor and implement specific projects.
• Target those who need it most: Care for the sections of the society, which are socially at the lowest rung irrespective of their religion or caste or language or colour.
• Sustain Natural Resources: The Company encourages balanced development and ensures least adverse impact on environment – Growth with Mother Nature’s–blessings.
was framed by the Company on 14 May 2014 has got amended on 28 April 2021, with approvals of the CSR Committee and Board of Directors.
The Policy, inter alia, covers the following:
• Philosophy, Approach & Direction;
• Guiding Principles for selection, implementation and monitoring of activities; and
• Guiding Principles for formulation of Annual Action Plan.

During FY2022, Committee met three times on 19 April 2021, 13 July 2021, and 18 October 2021:
3. Anami N Roy Member 3 3 Notes:
* Dr. Naushad Forbes, member of the Committee was appointed as a Chairman of the Committee with effect from 29 October 2021.
** Sanjiv Bajaj, relinquished his position as a Chairman of the Committee with effect from 28 October 2021. He continues to be member of the Committee.
3. Web-link where the following are disclosed on the Website of the Company :
(d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c) : ₹ 0.44 crore
8. (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:

(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
Total 0.45 Note: 1. There is no amount transferred to unspent CSR account for any of the projects as per section 136(6) of the Act.
2. Information on CSR Registration number for the implementing agencies is not given in point 8(b), since the mode of implementation is direct.
(b) D etails of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the : NIL preceding financial year(s):
10. I n case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the : Not applicable asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the financial year:

CSR AT BAJAJ FINSERV AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES
Introduction The very foundation of Bajaj Group was laid by the philanthropic instinct of Shri Jamnalalji Bajaj, our Group's founding father, who took the bold and unprecedented step of using business to serve society.
philanthropic contributions to the society should be above any thought of business gains.' COVID-19 RESPONSE HEALTHCARE
Need of the Hour Enabling Easy Access for Disadvantaged Communities Our community outreach programmes are crafted to serve the emergent needs of the lesser advantaged Enabling access and affordability of healthcare beneficiaries of society. In fact, as a Group, we have treatment for children is an important area of Bajaj always taken pride in being accountable not just to Finserv’s CSR activities, wherein, we extend our our own people but also to the communities around financial support to families of children in need of which we operate. In FY 2021, the Bajaj Group treating curable diseases or ailments that require contributed Rs 170 crore towards the fight against prolonged treatment support, including cleft lips and COVID-19 to alleviate the immediate on-ground palates, pediatric cancer, congenital heart disease, challenges, build capabilities, mobilise resources pediatric diabetes and epilepsy. We also support and upgrade healthcare infrastructure facilities in the medical expenses of specially-abled children.
areas with the much-needed access to quality healthcare facilities.
of the COVID-19 vaccines were administered during those drives.

of migrant workers, mining workers, construction BAJAJ FINSERV ‘BEYOND’ workers, etc., makes education accessible for the Our Flagship Employability underserved communities. In order to improve the Initiative overall effectiveness of school education, the Group also facilitates additional training programmes for Our employability initiative ‘BEYOND’ is aimed teachers through external instructors. To support at upskilling the first-generation graduates kids with intellectual or physical challenges, the from smaller towns and cities, to gain the right Group supports special education projects.
programmes, it prepares the students for more than 10 roles in the financial services industry.
entire BFSI industry, which offers an excellent LIVELIHOOD & SKILLING
balance between cost and productivity, as Income Generation for Tribal and compared to their traditional target segments.
various programmes like farming, animal husbandry, fishery; forest-based activities like beekeeping;
farming, the Group provides self-help organisations and people with opportunities to generate income.
help them achieve financial independence through secure employment.
EDUCATION Quality Education for All Education is one of the most important drivers of the socio-economic prosperity and stability of a self-reliant nation, and our child education programmes aim to make quality education available to all children. Our support for school buildings and schools that cater to the children 85

ANNEXURE TO DIRECTORS' REPORT: FY2022 Remuneration details under Rule 5 (1) of Companies (Appointment & Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 for the year ended 31 March 2022 Ratio of remuneration of director to median remuneration of % increase in the Name of the Director/KMP employees financial year (A) Whole-time director/Managerial Personnel Sanjiv Bajaj-Chairman & Managing Director 73.67 25.60 (B) Non-Executive directors1 D J Balaji Rao 1.04 56.41 Dr. Gita Piramal 0.90 26.19 Dr. Naushad Forbes 1.05 47.62 Anami N. Roy 0.53 72.22 Madhur Bajaj 0.46 50.00 Rajiv Bajaj 0.32 26.67 Manish Kejriwal 0.97 46.15 (C) Key Managerial Personnel Sanjiv Bajaj, Managing Director & CEO 25.60 S Sreenivasan-CFO 16.19 Sonal R Tiwari, Company Secretary* NA* Uma Shende, Company Secretary* NA* (D) Remuneration of the median employee 14.74 (other than whole-time director) (E) Permanent employees as on 31 March 2022 114
* being employed for the part of the year.
1 (a) R emuneration payable to non-executive directors is based on the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees attended by them as members during the year.
(b) R emuneration to directors does not include sitting fee paid to them for attending Board/Committee meetings.
2 'Permanent employees' does not include trainees, probationers and contract employees.
Notes on Disclosures under Rule 5 A. Average percentage increase in salary of employees other than whole time director is 4.50%.
remuneration of Chairman & Managing Director is keeping in view his duties and responsibilities, the performance of the Company and trend of remuneration in industry.
C. The remuneration paid as above was as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.

SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT (FORM MR-3) [Pursuant to section 204(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] For the financial year ended 31 March 2022 To, The Members,
Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
(CIN: L65923PN2007PLC130075) Bajaj Auto Ltd. Complex, Mumbai-Pune Road, Pune-411035 I have conducted the secretarial audit of the compliance of applicable statutory provisions and adherence to good corporate practices by Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (hereinafter called as 'the Company'). Subject to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by Covid 19 Pandemic lock down while taking review after completion of financial year, the Secretarial Audit was conducted in a manner that provided me a reasonable basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing my
opinion thereon.
that the Company has proper Board processes and compliance mechanism in place subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
I have examined the books, registers, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on 31 March 2022, according to the provisions of:
1) The Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder;
2) The Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder;
3) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed thereunder;
4) Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 and the rules and regulations made thereunder to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
(c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2018;

Regulations, 2021;
(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
(f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Registrars to an Issue and Share Transfer Agents) Regulations, 1993 regarding the Companies Act and dealing with client;
(g) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
6) Rules, Regulations and Guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India as are applicable to Non-Deposit taking NBFC / Core Investment Company which are specifically applicable to the Company.
(i) Secretarial Standards pursuant to section 118(10) of the Act, issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
of India Ltd. (NSE) as per SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended.
During FY2022 the Company has complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Directions, Guidelines, Standards, etc. mentioned above.
I further report that the Board of Directors of the Company is duly constituted with proper balance of executive directors, non-executive directors and independent directors including one woman director.
There were no changes in the composition of the Board of Directors, FY2022.
obtaining further information and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for meaningful participation at the meeting by the directors. The decisions were carried unanimously.
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and guidelines.
I further report that during the audit period, there was no other event/action having major bearing on affairs of the Company.
Shyamprasad D. Limaye FCS 1587 CP 572
UDIN: F001587D000225877 Pune: 28 April 2022 88

ANNEXURE TO SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT (FORM MR-3) To, The Members, Bajaj Finserv Limited Bajaj Auto Ltd. Complex, Mumbai-Pune Road,
Pune 411035.
My Secretarial Audit Report for Financial Year ended on 31 March 2022 of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
My responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial records based on my audit.
to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. I believe that the process and practices, I followed provide a reasonable basis for my opinion.
3. I have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the company.
4. Wherever required, I have obtained the Management representation about the compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of event etc..
standards is the responsibility of Management. My examination was limited to the verification of procedures on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Shyamprasad D. Limaye FCS 1587 CP 572
Pune: 28 April 2022 89

Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended (‘Listing Regulations’).
The compliance of conditions of Corporate Governance is the responsibility of the management.
This responsibility includes the design, implementation, and maintenance of internal control procedures to ensure the compliance with the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in Listing Regulations.
Company for ensuring compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
Company for the purposes of providing reasonable assurance on the compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by the Company.
Special Purposes issued by the ICAI which requires that we comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics issued by the ICAI.
Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information, and Other Assurance and Related Services Engagements.
us, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the above-mentioned Listing Regulations.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
ICAI Membership Number 044000 UDIN: 22044000AHYQUC3974
Pune: 28 April 2022 90

CERTIFICATE BY PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARY [Pursuant to Schedule V read with regulation 34(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations (as amended)] In the matter of Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (CIN: L65923PN2007PLC130075) having its registered office at Bajaj Auto
Ltd. Complex, Mumbai-Pune Road, Pune - 411035.
by the Company and declarations made by the directors and explanations given by the Company, and subject to limitation of physical interaction and verification of records caused by Covid Pandemic lock down;
and none of them have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Board/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
FCS. 1587 CP No. 572 UDIN: F001587D000225901
Pune: 28 April 2022 91

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

To the Members of Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Opinion
1. We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Ind AS financial statements of Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information ('the Consolidated Financial Statements').
profit and other comprehensive loss, consolidated changes in equity and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended.
consideration of audit reports of the other auditors referred to in the 'Other Matters' paragraph below is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Finance Ltd., a subsidiary of the Holding company, which describes the continuing uncertainties arising from COVID pandemic.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Allowances for expected credit losses ('ECL'):
As part of risk assessment, determined that ECL on such of Directors. Audit procedures related to the allowance for ECL loan assets has a high degree of estimation uncertainty, included the following, among others:
with a potential range of reasonable outcomes for the consolidated financial statements. The elements of Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the following:
policy approved by the Board of Directors including the the loan assets measured at amortised cost;
appropriateness of the qualitative factors to be applied.
used in the estimation of the PD and LGD for the different default ('EAD') product level with past trends;
stages depending on the nature of the portfolio;
emerging trends. ('SQL') queries used for the ECL calculations including approval thereof by the designated officials.
Testing details on a sample basis in respect of the following:
of default and other related information used in estimating the PD;
• the mathematical accuracy of the ECL computation by using the same input data as used by the group;
rates and its application to the corresponding loan asset portfolio of the group or part thereof;
the underlying data based on which the ECL estimates have been computed.
the overlay amount approved by the audit committee of the group.

multiple and discrete IT systems. Also, IT application management and network operations. In particular:
in a timely manner and access of all users being recertified On account of the pervasive use of its IT systems, during the period of audit.
include the consolidated financial statements and our auditors' report thereon. The other information is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors' report.
7. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
done / audit report of other auditors, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act for safeguarding the assets of the Group and of its joint venture and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities;

statements by the Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
its joint venture are responsible for overseeing the financial reporting process of the Group and of its joint venture.
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
are companies incorporated in India have adequate internal financial controls with reference to the consolidated financial statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
13.3 Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the management.
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors' report.

transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
direction, supervision and performance of the audits conducted by them. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
or in aggregate, makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable user of the consolidated financial statements may be influenced.
and in evaluating the results of our work; and (ii) to evaluate the effect of any identified misstatements in the consolidated financial statements.
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Ind AS financials statements of the Company’. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter based on the opinion expressed by the joint statutory auditors of BALIC.

joint statutory auditors of BAGIC.
consolidation adjustments) and net cash inflows amounting to ` 55.05 crore (before consolidation adjustments) for the year ended on that date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements.
report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
respect of these entities, and our report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act in so far as it relates to the aforesaid entities, is based solely on such report of the other auditors.
expressed an unmodified opinion on those audited consolidated financial statements. Our opinion is not modified in respect of these matters.
requirements below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports of the other auditors.
knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.

books and the reports of the other auditors.
Statement of Cash Flow dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
23.4 In our opinion, the aforesaid consolidated financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.
Group companies, incorporated in India are disqualified as on 31 March 2022 from being appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
incorporated in India and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in 'Annexure A'.
subsidiaries and joint venture company incorporated in India to its directors is in accordance with the provisions of and the limits laid down under section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act.
on the consolidated financial position of the Group, Refer Note 42A to the consolidated financial statements.
or Ind AS, for material foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts – Refer Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in respect of such items as it relates to the Group.
and Protection Fund by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, joint venture companies incorporated in India.

or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
('Ultimate Beneficiaries') or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
notice that has caused us to believe that the representation under clause (i) and (ii) of the Rule 11(e), as provided under 24.4 and 24.5 above, contains any material misstatement.
24.7 In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared during the year the by the Holding Company is in compliance with provisions of Section 123 of the Act.
to in paragraph 19 above, we report that there are no qualifications or adverse remarks in these CARO reports .
ICAI Membership Number: 044000 UDIN: 22044000AHYQPB6475
Pune: 28 April 2022 110000

companies, which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India ('the Guidance Note').
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
with reference to the consolidated financial statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
consolidated financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of the internal controls based on the assessed risk.
110011

material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to the consolidated financial statements.
(1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
also certified by the Appointed Actuary and has been relied upon by them. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
110022

not modified in respect of this matter.
in India, is based on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries, associates incorporated in India.
ICAI Membership Number: 044000 UDIN: 22044000AHYQPB6475
Pune: 28 April 2022 110033

ASSETS Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 3 4,087.16 2,955.09 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 4 315.87 455.40 Derivative financial instruments 5 136.63 4.14 Trade receivables 6 3,004.81 2,753.07 Loans 7 191,853.14 147,099.91 Investment in a joint venture 8 13.37 13.67 Shareholders' investments 9A 28,499.00 33,569.15 Policyholders' investments 9B 90,709.71 80,071.59 Other financial assets 10 2,738.45 2,538.58 321,358.14 269,460.60 Non-financial assets Current tax assets (net) 311.60 236.55 Deferred tax assets (net) 11A 951.17 945.90 Investment properties 12 35.59 39.73 Property, plant and equipment 13A 1,718.88 1,564.83 Right-of-use assets 13B 592.78 488.70 Capital work-in-progress 53.64 49.57 Intangible assets under development 59.17 79.28 Goodwill on consolidation 689.34 689.34 Other intangible assets 14 548.99 399.50 Other non-financial assets 15 7,399.66 6,210.32 12,360.82 10,703.72 Total 333,718.96 280,164.32 110044

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities Payables Trade payables 16 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 22.03 13.41 Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 3,986.91 4,164.58 Other payables 17 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises - - Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 812.95 660.77 Derivative financial instruments 5 219.71 156.09 Debt securities 18 71,505.55 50,769.77 Borrowings (other than debt securities) 19 54,363.56 47,441.20 Deposits 20 30,799.52 25,803.43 Subordinated liabilities 21 3,845.77 3,898.61 Insurance contracts liabilities 85,593.46 75,230.06 Investment contracts liabilities 10,898.95 8,881.18 Lease liabilities 22 664.78 547.84 Other financial liabilities 23 917.90 760.31 263,631.09 218,327.25 Non-financial liabilities Current tax liabilities (net) 312.40 568.30 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 11B 305.75 319.61 Provisions 24 233.59 226.38 Other non-financial liabilities 25 2,916.21 2,428.80 3,767.95 3,543.09 EQUITY
Equity share capital 26 79.57 79.57 Other equity 27 40,167.23 35,750.43 Non-controlling interest 26,073.12 22,463.98 66,319.92 58,293.98 Total 333,718.96 280,164.32 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Group 2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements As per our report of even date On behalf of the Board of Directors For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Chartered Accountants S Sreenivasan Sanjiv Bajaj ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621 Chief Financial Officer Chairman & Managing Director Ketan S Vikamsey Partner ICAI Membership Number: 044000 Uma Shende Madhur Bajaj Pune: 28 April 2022 Company Secretary Director 110055

B )erorC nI ₹( emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO sulprus dna sevreseR latoT egdeh dna tbeD ytiuqE erutcurtsarfnI ni dnuf evreseR ni dnuf evreseR latoT elbatubirtta stnemurtsni stnemurtsni erahS fo smret ni evreser noitces fo smret noitces fo smret -non ytiuqe ot rehto hguorht rehto hguorht desab )iiiv( )1( 63 noitces eht fo
C92 eht fo
)1(CI-54 gnillortnoc fo sredloh evisneherpmoc evisneherpmoc deniateR yrusaerT stnemyap xat-emocnI eht fo gnisuoH lanoitaN fo knaB evreseR lareneG seitiruceS etoN latoT tseretni tnerap eht emocni emocni sgninrae serahs evreser 1691 ,tcA 7891 ,tcA knaB 4391 ,tcA aidnI evreser muimerp .oN sralucitraP 38.187,05 51.065,91 86.122,13 87.627 )04.63( 19.452,71 )71.002( 65.241 00.22 65.14 69.538,1 67.870,2 27.553,9 72 0202 lirpA 1 ta sa ecnalaB 83.763,7 29.698,2 64.074,4 - - 64.074,4 - - - - - - - raey eht rof tfiorP )35.661( )93.65( )41.011( )32.901( 30.21 )49.21( - - - - - - - )xat fo ten( emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO 58.002,7 35.048,2 23.063,4 )32.901( 30.21 25.754,4 - - - - - - - 1202 hcraM 13 dedne raey eht rof emocni evisneherpmoc latoT 66.831 71.47 94.46 - - - - - - - - - 94.46 latipac erahs ytiuqe fo eussI eht fo )1(CI54 noitces fo smret ni dnuF evreseR ot refsnarT eht fo C92 noitces dna 4391 ,tcA aidnI fo knaB evreseR - - - - - )23.554( - - - 06.73 27.714 - - 7891 ,tcA knaB gnisuoH lanoitaN eht fo )iiiv( )1( 63 noitces fo smret ni evreseR erutcurtsarfnI ot refsnarT - - - - - )51.22( - - 51.22 - - - - 1691 ,tcA xaT emocnI )46.18( )46.18( - - - - - - - - - - - raey eht gnirud diap dna deralced ,dnedivid miretnI 16.471 96.06 29.311 - - - - 29.311 - - - - - seeyolpme ot stnemyap desab erahs fo noitingoceR )93.61( )93.61( - - - - - )92.81( - - - - 92.81 noitpo fo esicrexe no refsnarT 59.51 - 59.51 - - - 59.51 - - - - - - tsurt
POSE yb dleh serahs yrusaert morf noitasilaeR 45.0 62.0 82.0 - - - - - - - - 82.0 - snoitpo kcots fo noitallecnac no refsnarT - 12.62 )12.62( 10.0 50.0 )62.9( - )71.0( )30.0( )60.0( )28.2( )26.0( )13.31( yraidisbus ni gnidloherahs ni egnahc fo esuaceb tnemtsujdA 14.412,85 89.364,22 34.057,53 65.716 )23.42( 07.522,12 )22.481( 20.832 21.44 01.97 68.052,2 24.870,2 91.524,9 72 1202 hcraM 13 ta sa ecnalaB

B )erorC nI ₹( emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO sulprus dna sevreseR latoT egdeh dna tbeD ytiuqE erutcurtsarfnI ni dnuf evreseR ni dnuf evreseR latoT elbatubirtta stnemurtsni stnemurtsni erahS fo smret ni evreser noitces fo smret noitces fo smret -non ytiuqe ot rehto hguorht rehto hguorht desab )iiiv( )1( 63 noitces eht fo
C92 eht fo
)1(CI-54 gnillortnoc fo sredloh evisneherpmoc evisneherpmoc deniateR yrusaerT stnemyap xat-emocnI eht fo gnisuoH lanoitaN fo knaB evreseR lareneG seitiruceS etoN latoT tseretni tnerap eht emocni emocni sgninrae serahs evreser 1691 ,tcA 7891 ,tcA knaB 4391 ,tcA aidnI evreser muimerp .oN sralucitraP 35.313,8 67.657,3 77.655,4 - - 77.655,4 - - - - - - - raey eht rof tfiorP )52.185( )03.341( )59.734( )49.544( 88.91 )98.11( - - - - - - - )xat fo ten( emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO 82.237,7 64.316,3 28.811,4 )49.544( 88.91 88.445,4 - - - - - - - 2202 hcraM 13 dedne raey eht rof emocni evisneherpmoc latoT 84.444 92.902 91.532 - - - - - - - - - 91.532 latipac erahs ytiuqe fo eussI )20.0( )10.0( )10.0( - - - - - - - - - )10.0( sesnepxe eussi erahS eht fo )1(CI54 noitces fo smret ni dnuF evreseR ot refsnarT eht fo C92 noitces dna 4391 ,tcA aidnI fo knaB evreseR - - - - - )12.017( - - - 10.34 02.766 - - 7891 ,tcA knaB gnisuoH lanoitaN eht fo )iiiv( )1( 63 noitces fo smret ni evreseR erutcurtsarfnI ot refsnarT - - - - - )05.13( - - 05.13 - - - - 1691 ,tcA xaT emocnI )92.104( )55.353( )47.74( - - )47.74( - - - - - - - raey eht gnirud diap dna deralced ,dnedivid laniF 31.062 10.87 21.281 - - - - 21.281 - - - - - seeyolpme ot stnemyap desab erahs fo noitingoceR )92.57( )69.33( )33.14( - - 02.6 - )33.14( - - - - )02.6( noitpo fo esicrexe no refsnarT 52.46 - 52.46 - - - 52.46 - - - - - - tsurt POSE yb dleh serahs yrusaert morf noitasilaeR 51.0 70.0 80.0 - - - - - - - - 80.0 - snoitpo kcots fo noitallecnac no refsnarT 52.1 95.0 66.0 - - 66.0 - - - - - - - tsurt POSE ot dnedivid fo tnemtsujdA - 42.59 )42.59( 11.0 31.0 )02.83( - )86.1( )12.0( )73.0( )28.01( )59.1( )52.24( yraidisbus ni gnidloherahs ni egnahc fo esuaceb tnemtsujdA 53.042,66 21.370,62 32.761,04 37.171 )13.4( 97.949,42 )79.911( 31.773 14.57 47.121 42.709,2 55.670,2 29.116,9 72 2202 hcraM 13 ta sa ecnalaB 2 puorG eht yb dewollof seicilop gnitnuocca tnacfiingis fo yrammuS stnemetats laicnanfi detadilosnoc eht fo trap largetni na era seton gniynapmocca ehT srotceriD fo draoB eht fo flaheb nO etad neve fo troper ruo rep sA PLL oC & ijrevnuK ijmihK roF jajaB vijnaS nasavineerS
S stnatnuoccA deretrahC rotceriD gniganaM & namriahC recffiO laicnaniF feihC
126001W/W641501 :rebmuN noitartsigeR mriF IACI yesmakiV S nateK rentraP 000440 :rebmuN pihsrebmeM
IACI jajaB ruhdaM ednehS amU rotceriD yraterceS ynapmoC 2202 lirpA 82 :enuP

BBAAJJAAJJ FFIINNSSEERRVV LLIIMMIITTEEDD 1155tthh AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 1A Principles of consolidation and equity accounting The consolidated financial statements include financial statements of the following subsidiaries and joint venture of Bajaj Finserv Ltd., consolidated in accordance with Ind AS 110 ‘Consolidated Financial Statements’ and Ind AS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’. The consolidated financial statements comprise financial statements of Bajaj Finserv Ltd. (the ‘Company’, the ‘Holding Company’ or the ‘Parent’), its subsidiaries and joint venture (collectively, the ‘Group’) for the year ended 31 March 2022.
Bajaj Allianz Financial Distributors Ltd. ** India 50% Joint Venture
* The consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Finance Ltd. includes 100% interest in both, Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd. and Bajaj Financial Securities Ltd. as a subsidiary.
** The consolidated financial statements of Bajaj Allianz Financial Distributors Ltd. include 100% interest in Bajaj Allianz Staffing Solutions Ltd.
# The remaining 19.90% shareholding is held by Bajaj Finance Ltd.
group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power to direct the relevant activities of the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations by the group.
together like items of assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses. Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between group companies are eliminated.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the transferred asset.
Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in the consolidated financial Statement of Profit and Loss and Balance Sheet respectively.
of the investee in other comprehensive income. Dividends received or receivable from joint venture are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
111144

BBAAJJAAJJ FFIINNSSEERRVV LLIIMMIITTEEDD 1155tthh AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Consolidated Financial Statements Corporate Overview Statutory Reports Financial Statements Notes to consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Contd.) When the group’s share of losses in an equity-accounted investment equals or exceeds its interest in the entity, including any other unsecured long-term receivables, the group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the other entity.
group’s interest in these entities. Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
whether to measure the non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
present obligation and they are measured at their acquisition fair values irrespective of the fact that outflow of resources embodying economic benefits is not probable.
classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held equity interest is remeasured at its acquisition date fair value and any resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss or OCI, as appropriate.
profit or loss in accordance with Ind AS 109. If the contingent consideration is not within the scope of Ind AS 109, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate Ind AS and shall be recognised in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and subsequent its settlement is accounted for within equity.
accumulated in equity as capital reserve. However, if there is no clear evidence of bargain purchase, the entity recognises the gain directly in equity as capital reserve, without routing the same through OCI.
allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.

impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
measured based on the relative values of the disposed operation and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date. These adjustments are called as measurement period adjustments.
The measurement period does not exceed one year from the acquisition date.
Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from time to time, other relevant provisions of the Act and the RBI guidelines / regulations to the extent applicable on an accrual basis.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Group’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.
needed disclosures. The accounting policies, notes and disclosures made by the parent are best viewed in its standalone financial statements to which these consolidated financial statements are attached.
and hence, would vary from those prepared for statutory purposes under the Insurance Act, 1938 and IRDAI (Preparation of Financial Statements and Auditors Report) regulations, 2002.
account of diverse accounting policies to the extent they are specific to insurance companies as and are required by regulations which are in contrast to that of Bajaj Finserv Ltd. and hence not practicable to do so.
Also, differences in accounting policies followed by the other entities consolidated have been reviewed and adjustments have been made, only if these differences are material and significant.
Accounting Policies followed by the subsidiaries and joint ventures consolidated herein, to the extent they are different and unique are stated in note 2A below.

extent they were not inconsistent with Ind AS.
· Ratio of Expected Present Value (EPV) of death benefits to EPV of Other than death benefits is at least 5% measured at the inception of the policy.
not specific to a party to the contract. Financial Instruments (investment contracts) are required to be separated from insurance contracts.
rights and obligations are extinguished or expire. Investment contracts can, however, be reclassified as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes significant.

· Likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits;
· The amount or timing of which is contractually at the discretion of the issuer;
- Realised and or unrealised investment returns on a specified pool of assets held by the issuer
- The profit or loss of the Company, fund or other entity that issues the contract.
* Electrical fittings installed at leased premises are depreciated over an estimated useful life of 3 years
** Useful life of vehicle allotted to the employees is considered 4 years as per management estimation.
Lease hold improvements to leased properties are depreciated over the primary period of lease which is generally 3 years.
Assets costing individually less than ₹ 5,000 are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition.
Changes in the expected useful life are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or methodology, as appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates.

FVTPL FVTOCI # FVTOCI · Government securities FVTPL · Fixed deposits · Tri-party Repo (TREP) Amortised cost · Financial assets other than investments · Equity shares ## · ETF’s · Mutual fund
FVTPL · AT1 Bonds · Security receipts · Venture capital fund/AIF * Unit Linked Insurance Plans # Effective from 1 April 2021, debt instruments held under Non-Par Group fund portfolio are being considered as ‘Designated as FVTPL’ ## Certain equity investments in Shareholders’ fund that are not held for trading have been classified as FVTOCI 4. Investments – General Insurance Policyholders’ Shareholders’ Particulars funds fund · Debt securities · Government securities FVTOCI FVTOCI · Equity shares · Fixed deposits Amortised cost Amortised cost · Financial assets other than investments · Equity shares · Mutual fund FVTPL FVTPL · AT1 Bonds 5. Financial assets at FVTOCI Financial assets at FVTOCI – Debt instruments Financial assets are measured at FVTOCI when both of the following conditions are met · The instrument is held within a business model, the objective of which is both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets
· The contractual terms of the financial asset meet the SPPI test.
Financial assets in this category are those that are intended to be held to collect contractual cash flows and which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or in response to changes in market conditions.

gains or losses previously recognised in OCI are reclassified from OCI to Statement of Profit and Loss.
On initial recognition of equity instruments that is not held for trading, BAGIC/BALIC may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in the instrument's fair value in OCI (FVTOCI – equity investment).
This election is made on an instrument by instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these equity instruments are never recycled to Statement of Profit and Loss.
part of the cost of the instrument, in which case, such gains are recorded in OCI.Equity instruments at FVTOCI are not subject to an impairment assessment.
instruments. Few examples of financial liabilities are trade payables, debt securities and other borrowings and subordinated debts.
of directly attributable transaction costs. The Group’s financial liabilities include trade payables, other payables, debt securities and other borrowings.
EIR method. Any gains or losses arising on derecognition of liabilities are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Group derecognises a financial liability when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
contracts and investment cash flows in life, pension and annuity business, are accounted for in the manner specified in accordance with Ind AS 109.
interest rate risk on highly probable forecasted cash flows. As on the date of entering into the FRA, BALIC locks in the yield of the reference security and thereby hedges the risk of lower yield in the future.

Profit and Loss.
assessment of whether the hedge is expected to be, and has been, highly effective in offsetting the risk in the hedged item.
to a hedged risk are offset by changes in the cash flows of the hedging instrument. Hedge effectiveness is ascertained at the time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter.
of intermediate coupon inflows from valuation date till FRA contract settlement date, at applicable INR-Overnight Index Swap (OIS) rate curve.
into Statement of Profit and Loss. Costs associated with derivative contracts are considered as a point in time cost.
instruments are not recorded as assets or liabilities in the Balance Sheet as they do not represent the fair value of these transactions.

· Downgrade of rating of the security.
· Any receivable from stock exchanges like BSE/NSE since the exchange guarantees settlement · Reinsurance assets as specified by the report of the Committee on Risk based capital.
charge to Statement of Profit and Loss. The accumulated gain recognised in OCI is recycled to the Statement of Profit and Loss upon de-recognition of the assets.
and its eventual disposal. The impairment loss to be expensed is determined as the excess of the carrying amount over the higher of the asset’s net sales price or present value as determined above.
maximum of depreciable historical cost. After impairment, depreciation is provided on the revised carrying amount of the asset over the remaining useful life.
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment loss recorded in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Insurance receivables are derecognised when the derecognition criteria for financial assets, have been met.

recognition as an insurance contract. In this case the entire contract is measured as described above.
Investment contracts are classified between contracts with and without DPF. The accounting policies for investment contract liabilities with DPF are the same as those for life insurance contract liabilities.
Investment contract liabilities without DPF are recognised when contracts are entered into and premiums are charged.
Investment contract liabilities other than unit-linked business are recorded at amortised cost.
accordance with Ind AS 109 to reflect the deposit nature of the arrangement, with premiums and claims reflected as deposits and withdrawals and reflected in the balance sheet.
Company’s participating policyholders’ fund. Any allocation of bonus to the participating policyholders would also give rise to a transfer to shareholders’ profit and loss account in the required proportion.
All UPPS at the end of the reporting period are held within insurance contract liabilities.
recognised on the date when policy account value is credited. In accordance with the terms of insurance policies, uncollected premium on lapsed policies is not recognised as income until revived.
Top Up/Lump sum contributions are accounted as a part of single premium and recognised as income when the associated units are created.
charges, mortality charges and other charges, if any, are recovered from the unit linked funds in accordance with terms and conditions of policies issued and are recognised when due.
cases, it is recognised on instalment due dates. Any subsequent revisions to premium are recognised in the year in which they occur over the remaining period of risk or contract period, as applicable.
Adjustments to premium income arising on cancellation of policies are recognised in the period in which they are cancelled.

contractual obligations where there is reasonable certainty of its ultimate collectability.
over the contract period or the period of risk. Non-proportional reinsurance premium is ceded when incurred and due.
Any subsequent revisions to, refunds or cancellations of premiums are recognised in the year in which they occur.
in a manner consistent with the outstanding claims provision or settled claims associated with the reinsurer’s policies and are in accordance with the related reinsurance contract.
Any subsequent revisions to, in case of General Insurance business, refunds or cancellations of premiums are recognised in the year in which they occur.
Gains or losses on buying reinsurance are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss immediately at the date of purchase and are not amortised.
Ceded reinsurance arrangements do not relieve BAGIC from its obligations to policyholders.
Premium received in advance represents premium received in respect of policies issued during the year, where the risk commences subsequent to the balance sheet date.
Reinsurance inward acceptances are accounted for based on reinsurance slips accepted from the reinsurers.
same manner as they would be if the reinsurance were considered direct business, taking into account the product classification of the reinsured business.
Premiums and claims are presented on a gross basis for both ceded and assumed reinsurance.
the EIR method. Fees and commissions that are an integral part of the effective yield of the financial asset are recognised as an adjustment to the EIR of the instrument.
Investment income also includes dividends when the right to receive payment is established.

For Life Insurance business, benefits paid comprise of policy benefits and claim settlement costs.
Death and rider claims are accounted for on receipt of intimation. Survival, maturity and annuity benefits are accounted when due as per the terms of the contract with the policyholder.
Withdrawals and surrenders under non-linked policies are accounted on the receipt of intimation.
Withdrawals and surrenders under unit linked policies are accounted when the associated units are cancelled. Surrender charges recovered, if any, are netted off against the claim expense incurred.
provided for based on the best judgment of the Management considering the facts and evidence in respect of each such claim.
Amounts paid under investment contracts other than those with a discretionary participating feature are recorded as reductions of the investment contract liabilities.
not, together with related claims handling costs and a reduction for the expected value of salvage and other recoveries. Delays can be experienced in the notification and settlement of certain types of claims.
recognised. The liabilities are derecognised when the obligation to pay a claim expires, is discharged or is cancelled.
as premium income over the term of the contract in accordance with the pattern of insurance service provided under the contract.
related deferred acquisition costs) is inadequate, the deficiency is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss by setting up a provision for premium deficiency.

policies.
comprises claims paid and includes survey fees, legal expenses and other costs directly attributable to claims.
Claims paid (net of recoveries including salvage retained by the insured and includes interest paid towards claims) are charged to the respective revenue account when approved for payment.
Where salvage is retained by the Company, the recoveries from sale of salvage are recognised at the time of sale.
reinsurance and co-insurance arrangements respectively, are recognised together with the recognition of the claim under recoveries from reinsurers-claims.
to estimate the liability are appropriate and in accordance with guidelines and norms issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India in concurrence with the IRDAI regulations.
of the lease and (iii) the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.

is reasonably certain that they will be exercised.
been separately presented in the Balance Sheet and lease payments have been classified as financing cash flows.
of assets are classified as operating leases. Lease income of operating asset is recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on accrual basis and does not include any notional rent.
For eligible employees, the Group makes contributions to National Pension Scheme. The contributions are charged to the Statement of Profit and Loss, as relevant, in the year the contributions are made.
which they are incurred. In case of long-term motor insurance policies, commission is expensed at the applicable rates on the premium allocated for the year.
include considerations of liquidity and model inputs related to items such as credit risk (both own and counterparty), funding value adjustments, correlation and volatility.

discount rates.
Fair values of unitised investment contracts are determined by reference to the values of the assets backing the liabilities, which are based on the value of the unit-linked fund.
in these valuation techniques, including time value of money, volatility, policyholder behaviour, servicing cost and fair value of similar instruments.
reasons, the Company uses an average rate if the average approximates the actual rate at the date of the transaction.
currency at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date. All differences arising on non–trading activities are taken to other income/expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Non–monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rates as at the date of recognition.
outstanding provision of claims and estimated liability for claims incurred but not reported (‘IBNR’) and claims incurred but not enough reported (‘IBNER’).
likely to be paid against each claim, as anticipated and estimated by the Management in light of past experience and subsequently modified for changes, as appropriate.
for commensurate expected credit loss. BFL believes that the factors considered are reasonable under the current circumstances and information available.

carrying amount of a financial asset or to the amortised cost of a financial liability.
income on the amortised cost net of impairment loss of financial assets at EIR. If financial asset is no longer credit-impaired, BFL reverts to calculating interest income on a gross basis.
Delayed payment interest (penal interest) levied on customers for delay in repayments of contractual cashflows is recognised on realisation.
Interest on financial assets subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) is recognised at the contractual rate of interest.
loan customers on satisfactory completion of service delivery. Bounce charges levied on customers for non payment of instalment on the contractual date is recognised on realisation.
Fees on value added services and products are recognised on rendering of services and products to the customer.
arrangements. The income so earned is recognised on successful sales on behalf of other entities subject to there being no significant uncertainty of its recovery.
Foreclosure charges are collected from loan customers for early payment/closure of loan and are recognised on realisation.
it occurs. The embedded interest component in the service asset is recognised as interest income in line with Ind AS 109 - ‘Financial instruments’.
Other revenues on sale of services are recognised as per Ind AS 115 - ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’.

receive the same without any uncertainties of recovery is established.
and fees payable for management of portfolio etc., are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss on an accrual basis.
to receive has been established. Gains and losses on changes in fair value of debt instruments are recognised on net basis through profit or loss.
BFL’s investments into mutual funds, Government securities and certificate of deposits for trading and short term cash flow management have been classified under this category.
assets is recognised in profit or loss. The ECL calculation for debt instruments at FVTOCI is explained in subsequent notes in this section.
asset requirement of the BFL’s deposit program and mortgage loans portfolio where the BFL periodically resorts to partially selling the loans by way of assignment to willing buyers are classified as FVTOCI.
On derecognition of the asset, cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from other comprehensive income to profit or loss.
strategic investments in equity for which it has elected to present subsequent changes in the fair value in other comprehensive income. The classification is made on initial recognition and is irrevocable.
available for reclassification to profit or loss, even on sale of investments. Equity instruments at FVTOCI are not subject to an impairment assessment.

and subordinated debts.
of directly attributable transaction costs. BFL’s financial liabilities include trade payables, other payables, debt securities and other borrowings.
EIR method. Any gains or losses arising on derecognition of liabilities are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
BFL derecognises a financial liability when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Finance costs Borrowing costs on financial liabilities are recognised using the EIR explained above.
contracts covered by the Ind AS. BFL has adopted modified retrospective approach as stated in Ind AS 116 for all applicable leases on the date of adoption.
At the time of initial recognition, BFL measures lease liability as present value of all lease payments discounted using the BFL’s incremental cost of borrowing and directly attributable costs.
Subsequently, the lease liability is · increased by interest on lease liability;
· remeasured to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications specified in Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’, or to reflect revised fixed lease payments.
At the time of initial recognition, BFL measures ‘Right-of-use assets’ as present value of all lease payments discounted using the BFL’s incremental cost of borrowing w.r.t said lease contract.
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liability specified in Ind AS 116 ‘Leases’.
Depreciation on ‘Right-of-use assets’ is provided on straight line basis over the lease period.
The exception permitted in Ind AS 116 for low value assets and short-term leases has been adopted by BFL.

policies for business model.
is an objective evidence of impairment are considered to be in ‘stage 3’. Life time ECL is recognised for stage 2 and stage 3 financial assets.
resulting from default events that are possible in the next 12 months, or less, where the remaining life is less than 12 months.
In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, allowance (or provision) is required for ECL resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of the financial instrument (‘lifetime ECL’).
realistic prospect of recovery. BFL may apply enforcement activities to certain qualifying financial assets written off.
evidence, primarily whether
• Contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for more than 90 days;
of impairment. Having satisfied the conditions of timely payment over the observation period these loans could be transferred to stage 1 or 2 and a fresh assessment of the risk of default be done for such loans.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the net amortised cost amount i.e.
gross carrying amount less ECL allowance.
An assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed at each reporting period by considering the change in the risk of default of the loan exposure.
frequently delaying payments beyond due dates though not 30 days past due are included in stage 2 for mortgage loans.

considering future economic conditions that are determined to have a bearing on ECL.
each homogenous portfolio using application/behavioural score cards and other performance indicators, determined statistically.
Measurement of ECL The assessment of credit risk and estimation of ECL are unbiased and probability weighted.
linkage to the performance of our portfolios over a period of time have been applied to determine impact of macro economic factors.
(LGD) and the exposure at default (EAD). ECL is calculated by multiplying the PD, LGD and EAD and adjusted for time value of money using a rate which is a reasonable approximation of EIR.
- Determination of PD is covered above for each stage of ECL.
interest from the balance sheet date to the date of default together with any expected drawdowns of committed facilities.
other attributes, the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and the time value of money.
abnormal scenarios) by using the available incremental and recent information as well as assessing changes to its statistical techniques for a granular estimation of ECL.
before and after the business combination, and that control is not transitory. BFL accounts for business combinations under common control as per the pooling of interest method.
The pooling of interest method involves the following · The assets and liabilities of the combining entities are reflected at their carrying amounts.
· No adjustments are made to reflect fair values, or recognise any new assets or liabilities. The only adjustments that are made are to harmonise accounting policies.

occurred after that date, the prior period information shall be restated only from that date.
recognition in the Statement of Profit and Loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. BFL has designated derivatives as cash flow hedges of a recognised liability and has no fair value hedges.
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial liability.
risk. In order to manage particular risks, BFL applies hedge accounting for transactions that meet specified criteria.
changes in cash flows and are assessed on an on-going basis to determine that they actually have been highly effective throughout the financial reporting periods for which they were designated.
A cash flow hedge is a hedge of the exposure to variability in cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability and could affect profit or loss.
For designated and qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument is initially recognised directly in OCI within equity (cash flow hedge reserve).
The ineffective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised immediately as finance cost in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in the corresponding income or expense line of the Statement of Profit and Loss.

gain or loss that was reported in OCI is immediately transferred to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
followed in the previous year, the profit before tax for the period would have been higher by ₹ 98.52 crore.
this deferment and such alignment does not have any significant impact on the financial results for the year ended 31 March 2022.

Trade receivables are non-interest bearing.

* includes investments in approved securities as per RBI Act.

The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar properties.
rates prevailing for similar properties in those location determined by an independent registered valuer and consequently classified as a level 2 valuation.

MSME 3.33 18.70 - - - 22.03 Unbilled 1,369.68 - - - - 1,369.68 Others 453.38 1,997.11 164.52 2.15 0.02 2,617.18 Disputed dues – other than MSME - - 0.05 - - 0.05 31 March 2021
MSME 0.48 12.93 - - - 13.41 Unbilled 881.09 - - - - 881.09 Others 335.80 2,931.84 6.96 5.22 3.62 3,283.44 Disputed dues – other than MSME - 0.05 - - - 0.05 17 Other payables (₹ In Crore) As at 31 March Particulars 2022 2021 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises - - Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 812.95 660.77 812.95 660.77 147

the shareholders.
issued and allotted 154 of such equity shares at the offered price of ₹ 650, thereby collecting ₹ 0.01 crore as premium. During the year, the Holding Company did not issue any such equity shares.

limited purposes in accordance with section 52 and other provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the Companies Act, 2013.
Reserve fund is created as per the terms of section 45 IC(1) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 as a statutory reserve.

statutory reserve.
for construction or purchase of houses in India for residential purposes and for development of infrastructure facility in India.
Share based payments reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 'Share Based Payments' on the employee stock option scheme operated by the Group.
Treasury shares The reserve for shares of the Holding Company held by the BFS ESOP Trust (ESOP Trust).
the Holding Company have been purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to transfer such shares to employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.
instrument is sold. Any impairment loss on such instruments is reclassified immediately to the Statement of Profit and Loss.
reserve within equity. The Group transfers amounts from this reserve to retained earnings when the relevant equity securities are derecognised.
It represents the cumulative gains/(losses) arising on revaluation of the derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges through OCI.

* Pertains to litigations pending with various consumer forums/courts.
i) The Group is of the opinion that the above demands are not tenable and expects to succeed in its appeals/defense.
the demands. BFL, in line with the opinion obtained from a senior legal counsel, is of view that the said demands are not tenable.
(CESTAT), Mumbai against the said demand. BFL, in line with the opinion obtained from a senior legal counsel, is of view that the said demands are not tenable.

view that the said demands are not tenable.
demands. BFL, in line with the opinion obtained from a legal counsel, is of view that the said demands are not tenable.
17 February 2022 with the CESTAT Mumbai disputing the demands. BFL, in line with the opinion obtained from a legal counsel, is of view that the said demands are not tenable.
v) It is not practicable for the Group to estimate the timings of the cash flows, if any, in respect of the above pending resolution of the respective proceedings.

Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
other business segments. Accordingly Life Insurance, General Insurance, Windmill, Retail Financing and Investments and others have been identified as the business segments.
(b) All the companies included in above reporting operate within India. Hence Geographic segment is not applicable.

Segment information is based on the consolidated financial statements.
other business segments. Accordingly Life Insurance, General Insurance, Windmill, Retail Financing and Investments and others have been identified as the business segments.
(b) All the companies included in above reporting operate within India. Hence Geographic segment is not applicable.

A. Since consolidated financial statements present information about the holding and its subsidiaries as a single reporting enterprise, it is unnecessary to disclose intra - group transactions.
B. Joint ventures and investing parties:
Security deposit received - (0.01) - (0.01) Bajaj Allianz Staffing Solutions Ltd.
Claims recovery on reinsurance 5.27 - - -
* The amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group.

* The amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group.

C Individuals controlling voting power/exercising significant influence and their Relatives:
Rishabh Bajaj Demat charges * - - *
* The amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group.

D Other entities/persons:
Interest subsidy 11.02 - 1.72 -
* The amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group.

* The amount is below the rounding off norm adopted by the Group.
Name of the related party and nature of the related party relationship where control exists have been disclosed irrespective of whether or not there have been transactions between the related parties. In other cases, disclosure has been made only when there have been transactions with those parties.
Related parties as defined under para 9 of Ind AS 24 'Related Party Disclosures' have been identified based on representations made by key managerial personnel and information available with the Group.

with the principles set out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.
The Group provides for gratuity payments to employees. The gratuity benefit payable to the employees of the Group is greater of the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 and the Group’s gratuity scheme.
Employees who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Group makes contributions to approved gratuity fund.

* On account of inter group transfer.

seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand and supply in the employment market.
BFL recognised expense of ₹ 55.22 crore towards contribution made to provident fund under defined contribution plan.
With effect from 1 April 2021, BFL migrated to Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO).
Till 31 March 2021 the provident fund contribution was made to Bajaj Auto Ltd. Provident Fund Trust.

the rate earned and the guaranteed rate.

measures, the regulations issued by RBI and NHB.
businesses and meeting the solvency ratio required by IRDAI. The adequacy of the BAGIC and BALIC’s capital is monitored using, among the other measures, the regulation issued by IRDAI.
money market instruments depending upon the economic conditions and is in line with guidelines set out by IRDAI.
Safety of capital is of prime importance to ensure availability of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate return on the surplus funds.
No changes were made in the objective, policies and processes of capital management during the year.
Both BAGIC and BALIC do not have any borrowings and do not borrow funds.
capital base to support the risks inherent to its business and growth strategies. BFL endeavours to maintain a higher capital base than the mandated regulatory capital at all times.
annual operating plan which is approved by the Board and also a long-range strategy. These growth plans are aligned to assessment of risks-which include credit, liquidity and market.
BFL monitors its capital to risk-weighted asset ratio (CRAR) on a monthly basis through its Assets Liability Management Committee (ALCO).
BFL endeavors to maintain its CRAR higher than the mandated regulatory norm. Accordingly, increase in capital is planned well in advance to ensure adequate funding for its growth.
applicable legal provisions, the Board shall endeavour to maintain a dividend payout in the range of 15% to 25% of profit after tax on standalone financials, to the extent possible.
non-equity capital where necessary. These investments are funded by BFL through its equity share capital and other equity which inter alia includes retained profits.

Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Particulars 2022 2021 Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.

* fair value computed using discounted cash flow method.

* fair value computed using discounted cash flow method.

carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value.

carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value.

(i.e. derived from prices).
There have been no transfers from Level 1 to Level 2 and vice versa.
This level of hierarchy includes financial assets measured using inputs that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). This level of hierarchy includes unlisted equity instruments.
There have been no transfers from Level 1 to Level 3 and vice versa.

carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value.

N/A b) Other payables - - 2,402.48 2,402.48 Other financial liabilities - - 158.14 158.14 Lease contract liability - - 90.53 90.53 Total financial liabilities - - 2,663.81 2,663.81 - - - # BAGIC has not disclosed the fair value for financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, policy loans, other financial assets, trade payables because their
carrying amounts are reasonable approximation of fair value.

A. Bajaj Finance Ltd.
A summary of the major risks faced by Bajaj Finance Ltd.(BFL), its measurement, monitoring and management are described as under:
Nature of risk Arising from structure Measurement, monitoring and management of risk Liquidity and Liquidity risk arises Board Liquidity and funding risk is:
timing of cash flows. Management Committee • measured by (RMC) and - identification of gaps in the structural and dynamic liquidity statements.
Funding risk arises from: Asset Liability - assessment of incremental borrowings required for meeting the repayment obligation
• inability to raise Committee as well as BFL's business plan in line with prevailing market conditions.
i a n n c d r e d m ep e o n s ta it l s b t o o r r f o u w nd in gs (ALCO) - liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) in accordance with guidelines issued by RBI.
repayment obligations - assessment of the gap between visibility of funds and the near term liabilities given current liquidity conditions and evolving regulatory directions for NBFCs.
assuming varied ‘what if’ scenarios and comparing probable gaps with the liquidity
• Amidst volatile buffers maintained by BFL.
and money markets. mismatch, keeping strong pipeline of sanctions and approvals from banks and assignment of loans under the guidance of ALCO and Board.
Market risk Market risk arises from Board appointed Market risk is:
and equity prices. duration analysis and other measures to determine movements in our portfolios and impact on our income, including the sensitivity of net interest income;
assets and liabilities; and
• managed by BFL’s treasury team under the guidance of ALCO and Investment Committee .
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of Board appointed Credit risk is:
repayment obligations to BFL restructuring, collection efficiency, credit bureau information, non performing loans etc. are used as leading indicators to assess credit risk.
portfolio concentration risks; and assessment of any major change in the business environment including economic, political as well as natural calamity/pandemic.
middle management team comprising of risk, analytics, collection and fraud containment along with business. The same is periodically reviewed by the Board appointed RMC.
Operational risk Operational risk is the risk Board appointed Operational risk is:
failed internal processes Management • measured by KPI's set for each of the processes/ functions, system and control failures or controls, its people and Audit and instances of fraud.
external events periodical review of technology platforms and review of control processes as part of internal control framework.
• managed by in house compliance units established across different businesses and functions, operations and internal audit function under the guidance of RMC and AC.

concentrations on either side of the balance sheet.
7.84% despite highly uncertain market conditions. The overall borrowings including debt securities, deposits and subordinated debts stood at ₹ 165,231.92 crore as of 31 March 2022.
for FY2022 was ₹ 13,297.90 crore. With easing of economic volatility, BFL has brought down its liquidity buffer in a calibrate manner to ₹ 10,110.32 crore as on 31 March 2022.
liquidity coverage ratio (LCR), stress testing, contingency funding plan, maturity profiling, liquidity risk measurement – stock approach, currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk monitoring framework.
for BFL, which will move to 70% from 1 December 2022. As of 31 March 2022, BFL maintained a LCR of
134.32%, well in excess of the RBI’s stipulated norm of 60%.
from short tenor businesses which puts it in an advantageous position for servicing of its near-term obligations.

ASSETS Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 3,407.17 - 3,407.17 1,849.33 - 1,849.33 Earmarked balances with banks 139.11 134.02 273.13 291.86 23.13 314.99 Derivative financial instruments 121.90 - 121.90 - - - Trade receivables 1,083.99 181.90 1,265.89 964.13 143.11 1,107.24 Loans 68,814.83 122,608.42 191,423.25 53,203.59 93,483.28 146,686.87 Investments 8,553.18 3,692.36 12,245.54 15,587.73 2,809.18 18,396.91 Other financial assets 660.08 61.41 721.49 527.75 9.43 537.18 Non-financial assets Current tax assets (net) - 168.30 168.30 - 159.77 159.77 Deferred tax assets (net) - 951.11 951.11 - 945.90 945.90 Property, plant and equipment - 1,282.58 1,282.58 - 1,041.69 1,041.69 Capital work-in-progress - 13.27 13.27 - 7.07 7.07 Intangible assets under development - 20.87 20.87 - 43.99 43.99 Goodwill - 3.27 3.27 - 3.27 3.27 Other intangible assets - 430.45 430.45 - 270.74 270.74 Other non-financial assets 137.05 40.09 177.14 95.75 20.08 115.83 Total 82,917.31 129,588.05 212,505.36 72,520.14 98,960.64 171,480.78
LIABILITIES Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 140.02 - 140.02 137.87 - 137.87 Trade payables 1,169.32 - 1,169.32 894.86 - 894.86 Other payables 341.78 - 341.78 213.82 - 213.82 Debt securities 32,654.27 43,568.80 76,223.07 16,018.42 38,483.72 54,502.14 Borrowings (other than debt securities) 18,119.97 36,243.59 54,363.56 12,206.01 35,223.35 47,429.36 Deposits 15,041.10 15,758.42 30,799.52 12,442.57 13,360.86 25,803.43 Subordinated liabilities 405.10 3,440.67 3,845.77 252.79 3,645.82 3,898.61 Other financial liabilities 799.89 310.54 1,110.43 642.75 255.55 898.30 Non-financial liabilities Current tax liabilities (net) 100.06 - 100.06 180.17 - 180.17 Provisions 15.06 151.84 166.90 18.25 119.44 137.69 Other non-financial liabilities 475.83 56.41 532.24 358.97 107.15 466.12 Total 69,262.40 99,530.27 168,792.67 43,366.48 91,195.89 134,562.37 192

changes in the market variables such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices.
change impact is monitored using VaR and the parameters for monitoring the same are defined in its investment policy.
is measured by using the duration gap analysis. The same is computed monthly and sensitivity of the market value of equity assuming varied changes in interest rates are presented and monitored by ALCO.

companies, measures mark-to-market gains/losses.

BFL is exposed to foreign currency fluctuation risk for its foreign currency borrowing (FCB).
and coupon). BFL hedges its entire ECB exposure for the full tenure of the ECB as per Board approved interest rate risk, currency risk and hedging policy.
BFL for its FCB, evaluates the foreign currency exchange rates, tenure of FCB and its fully hedged costs.
BFL manages its currency risks by entering into derivative contracts as hedge positions and the same are being governed through the Board approved interest rate risk, currency risk and hedging policy.
terms of the hedging instrument match with the terms of the hedged item, and so a qualitative and quantitative assessment of effectiveness is performed.
Particulars amount instrument asset instrument liability INR USD CCIRS 3,964.19 - (71.07)
INR JPY CCIRS 1,417.97 - (66.55)

repayment obligations to BFL. It has a diversified lending model and focuses on six broad categories viz:
and (vi) commercial lending. BFL assesses the credit quality of all financial instruments that are subject to credit risk.
Classification of financial assets under various stages BFL classifies its financial assets in three stages having the following characteristics:
• stage 1: unimpaired and without significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition on which a 12-month allowance for ECL is recognised;
• stage 3: objective evidence of impairment, and are therefore considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired on which a lifetime ECL is recognised.
a 12-month Point in Time (PIT) probability weighted probability of default (PD). For stage 2 and 3 assets a life time ECL is calculated based on a lifetime PD.
'resolution framework for Covid-19 related stress' and 'Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector – Restructuring of Advances' and circulars dated 5 May 2021 'Resolution Framework – 2.0:
Resolution of Covid-19 related stress of Individuals and Small Businesses' and 'Resolution Framework
2.0– Resolution of Covid-19 related stress of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs)'.
12 instalments of principal and/or interest-post renegotiation and subject to no overdues and no other indicators of significant increase in credit risk on the reporting date, reclassified such loans to stage 1.
(loss given default) and EAD (exposure at default) along with an adjustment considering forward macro economic conditions.
pandemic leading to lockdowns which resulted in very low economic activity, distortion of customers financial position and volitile repayment behaviour, leading to RBI announcing EMI moratorium and OTR.
Given the temporary distortion of input variables, BFL has not recalibrated components of its ECL model.
Trade receivables and other financial assets were subjected to simplified ECL approach under Ind AS 109 'Financial instruments'.

PD Lending verticals Nature of businesses Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 EAD LGD Consumer Financing for products such as two 100% lending - B2B wheeler, three wheeler, consumer durable,
digital, lifecare and furniture etc.
Mortgages Home loans, loans against property, Use of statistical automatic interaction 100% interest.
loans and management evaluation/ judgment for wholesale loans.

have a significant financial effect in mitigating BFL's credit risk.
Consumer lending - B2B Hypothecation of underlying product financed e.g. two wheeler, three wheeler and consumer durable etc.
SME lending (Secured) Hypothecation of underlying product e.g. used car and medical equipment etc.
Rural lending - B2B Hypothecation of underlying product financed e.g. consumer durable, furniture and digital products etc.
Mortgages Equitable mortgage of residential and commercial properties.
Loans against securities Pledge of equity shares and mutual funds and lien on deposits and insurance policies Commercial lending Plant and machinery, book debts etc.
sale of underlying securities. BFL does not record repossessed assets on its Balance Sheet as non–current assets held for sale.
Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) governed by the SIDBI. As on 31 March 2022, BFL has covered ₹ 5,266 crore of its loan assets under this scheme.
Further, BFL has also granted loans under RBI’s Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) to its qualifying customers. As of 31 March 2022 ₹ 692.65 crore of loans are outstanding under ECLGS.
This has helped BFL to offset ₹ 148 crore worth of credit losses till FY2022 with further claims maturing over FY2023 and FY2024.

lending mentioned above.
(‘ECL’) involves the use of estimation. It is necessary to formulate multiple forward-looking economic forecasts and its impact as an integral part of ECL model.
estimation of impact of macro factors on ECL. The key scenario assumptions are used keeping in mind external forecasts and management estimates which ensure that the scenarios are unbiased.
BFL use multiple economic factors and tested their correlations with past loss trends witnessed.
These were GDP growth rates, growth of bank credit, wholesale price index (WPI), consumer price index (CPI), industrial production index, unemployment rate, crude oil prices and policy interest rates.
of portfolio trends. These factors were assigned appropriate weights to measure ECL in forecast economic conditions.
marginal growth of just 1% from November 2021 to February 2022. While FY2021 could be considered as a period of immense stress, the current year too was a period of low recovery.
during most part of the year, by capturing the macro variables numbers of the most difficult period of Covid-19 pandemic.

relation with the income levels and thus the growth of the economy from the expenditure side.
macro-variables directly and indirectly impact the disposable income of the people, which eventually drives the economy.
engaged in monitoring of Indian economic indicators. The unemployment rate, which after removing the extreme Covid impact of first quarter from FY2021 and FY2022, shows an increase from 7.2% to 7.44%.
acknowledged that there is no reliably ascertainable direct impact of these crisis on the Indian economy and accordingly the estimates have been arrived at.
While formulating the central scenario, BFL has considered that the unemployment number may see an increase in the immediate short run and may remain at an average of 7% over the next few years.
The geo-political uncertainty has to be watched closely for evaluating its impact on the macro fundamental in the long run.
however, the downside scenario assumes it to fall from the peak and normalise to around 7% within next three years.
average of 7.1%. The unemployment numbers as such captured the impact of potential disruption that multiple waves of Covid may cause in short run.
to November 2021. CPI again went up to upwards of 6% in Q4 FY2022 and closed at a high of 6.95% in March 2022. Elevated level of inflation poses significant challenges from credit risk perspective.
inflation to range between 5.1% to 6.35% during FY2023, suggesting inflation to remain moderately elevated compared to pre-covid long term average.
inflation to see an increase on account of demand-supply imbalances and touch a peak of around 8.88% in Q1 FY2023, before easing off to the average of pre-covid period in the eight year time horizon.
scenario etc, and, therefore, inflation may see easing to a base of around 3% before averaging back to the pre-covid levels.

helped in curtailing the impact on the portfolio amidst the second wave as well.
metrics. Further, this agile, calibrated and closely monitored approach to credit risk and timely investment in deepening of debt management services have enabled BFL to weather the pandemic well.
The third wave which started in mid-December 2021 had no significant impact on risk metrics both for new business and the overall portfolio.
BFL carried out multiple risk simulations to assess the potential impact of the second and third wave of the pandemic on portfolio risk and absorbed additional credit costs based on these simulations.
and Covid-19 of ₹ 1,060 crore as on 31 March 2022 to account for any tail risk which may emerge from the pandemic and other uncertainities.

adequately mitigate them on an ongoing basis.
address gaps in the framework, if any. DR and BCP audits are conducted on a periodical basis to provide assurance regarding the effectiveness of BFL’s readiness.
It is BAGIC’s policy to ensure that a robust risk awareness is embedded in its organisational risk culture. BAGIC manages risk as culture which encompasses across the organisation.
Our rewards programs across the organisation ensure the sufficient weightage is given to both top line and bottom line hence ensuring well-balanced and ideal risk reward structure.
(ii) Risk controls and compliance which includes a. Standard operating procedures, b. Internal audit, c. External audits, and d. Periodic risk management review.

probabilities derived from historical experience, adjusted to reflect the economic environment.
Company has established limits for monitoring and controlling the risks.
The reporting systems include (i) Top risk assessment, (ii) Risk control assessments (RCAs)/ Risk management development plan (RMDP) and (iii) Committee presentations.
The ERM governance structure includes (i) Board Risk Management Committee, (ii) Supervisory Level – Risk Committee (RiCo) and (iii) Functional Risk owners.
BAGIC issues the following main types of general insurance contracts: motor, household, commercial, health and crop. Risks under non–life insurance policies usually cover twelve months duration.
Coverages provided to policyholders are not guaranteed as renewable.
(e) Higher expenses, (f) Operational frauds.
of risk and level of insured benefits. This is largely achieved through diversification across industry sectors and geography.

from time to time and monitored by the Reserving Committee.
not been possible to quantify the sensitivity of certain assumptions such as legislative changes or uncertainty in the estimation process.
to be changed on an individual basis. It should be noted that movements in these assumptions are non–linear.
possibility that BAGIC might be unable to meet its payment obligations when they fall due as a result of mismatches in the timing of the cash flows under both normal and stressed circumstances.
Such scenarios could occur when funding needed for illiquid asset positions is not available to BAGIC on acceptable terms.
obligations by timing the cash inflows and outflows through cash flow matching and by maintaining a minimum mix of liquid assets.

regulatory norm of 150%.

Maturity analysis:

Company. The BAGIC monitors changes in credit risk by tracking published external credit ratings.
protection from reinsurers with good credit rating (A- and above). Higher the credit rating lower is risk of default. Moreover, risks are passed to multiple reinsures in order to avoid accumulation of risk.

FVTOCI.
Ratings cost FVTOCI Total cost FVTOCI Total A1+ - 249.66 249.66 - 194.84 194.84
AA - 55.17 55.17 - - - AA(SO) - 24.87 24.87 - - -
AA+ - - - - 22.94 22.94 AAA 50.00 8,420.63 8,470.63 49.00 10,352.57 10,401.57
AAA(SO) - 43.63 43.63 - 558.38 558.38 BBB+ - 72.30 72.30 - - -
BBB - - - - 70.26 70.26 D - - - - 18.75 18.75
Equity - 878.88 878.88 - 119.58 119.58 Sovereign - 12,195.98 12,195.98 - 9,794.28 9,794.28 Unrated - - - - - - Total 50.00 21,941.12 21,991.12 49.00 21,131.60 21,180.60 ECL (12 months and life time) - (0.20) (0.20) - (0.63) (0.63) Net carrying amount 50.00 21,940.92 21,990.92 49.00 21,130.97 21,179.97 Following table indicates whether financial assets carried at amortised cost or FVTOCI were subject to a 12-months credit loss (ECL) and life time ECL.

and guarantees that are embedded in contracts.
personnel or external events. BAGIC has identified various risks under this category and has put in place appropriate controls and disaster recovery plans to mitigate or minimize the risk.
and various other factors including the possible effects that may result from the pandemic, that are believed to be reasonable under the current circumstances.
Business impact Covid-19 outbreak has been declared as a Pandemic by World Health Organisation in March 2020.
volatility in global and Indian financial markets. The Government is undertaking several measures to restrict the spread of virus and provide financial support to some stressed sectors.
among other things, lockdowns and its repercussions on the economy, proportion of population vaccinated, government intervention to provide financial support to the stressed sections, etc.
BAGIC will continue to closely monitor developments as they unfold.
controls. Accordingly, the operations of the BAGIC intermittently continue to be partially performed from remote locations (WFH) through secured servers.
been independently tested covering all the material controls over financial reporting and found them to be operating effectively at 31 March 2022.

defense finally followed by statutory and concurrent Auditors which act as the final line of defense.
their contractual obligations. The carrying amount of financial assets represent maximum credit risk exposure.
BALIC’s credit risk exposure mainly arises from its investments in financial instruments.
investee company group and industry exposure. Norms include those prescribed under the investment regulations and those set as internal limits based on the risk appetite of BALIC.
BALIC monitors changes in credit risk by tracking published external credit ratings.
FVTOCI. It indicates whether financial assets carried at amortised cost or FVTOCI were subject to a 12-months credit loss (ECL) and life time ECL.
Highly rated including AAA # 16,731.23 4,817.11 21,548.34 18,998.26 5,829.32 24,827.58 AA 73.33 7.57 80.90 44.98 71.70 116.68
Financial assets other than investments - 2,401.28 2,401.28 - 2,477.14 2,477.14 Total (a) 16,804.56 7,225.96 24,030.52 19,043.24 8,378.16 27,421.40 ECL (12 months and life time) (0.23) (5.44) (5.67) (0.56) (4.93) (5.49) Net carrying amount (c) 16,804.33 7,220.52 24,024.85 19,042.68 8,373.23 27,415.91 # Includes investments in Government securities and treasury bill 210

associated with financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset.
liquidity is maintained to meet short-term obligations by timing the cash inflows and outflows through cash flow matching and by maintaining a minimum mix of liquid assets.

FVTPL 37,606.84 - - - - 37,606.84 Designated as FVTPL - 235.51 576.82 4,549.83 20,716.90 26,079.06 FVTOCI 498.12 75.24 3,112.94 3,207.69 10,408.71 17,302.70 Cash and cash equivalents 134.72 - - - - 134.72 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents - - - 36.20 - 36.20 Trade receivables - 317.52 - - - 317.52 Loans - 0.01 0.04 179.09 335.81 514.95 Other financial assets - 678.17 681.88 4.68 33.15 1,397.88 Derivative financial instruments - - - 7.99 6.74 14.73 38,239.68 5,382.80 5,119.95 7,985.48 31,501.31 88,229.22 Financial liabilities Trade payables 204.61 1,680.90 - - - 1,885.51 Lease obligations - 6.04 23.38 40.59 27.38 97.39 Deposits - - - 4.86 - 4.86 Derivative financial instruments - - - 70.38 9.31 79.69 204.61 1,686.94 23.38 115.83 36.69 2,067.45 212

FVTPL 32,625.33 - - - - 32,625.33 Designated as FVTPL - 375.50 270.19 1,512.20 14,997.97 17,155.86 FVTOCI 112.99 7.32 343.89 3,888.88 14,803.14 19,156.22 Cash and cash equivalents 386.21 - - - - 386.21 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents - - - 34.02 - 34.02 Trade receivables - 253.22 - - - 253.22 Loans - 4.86 43.49 152.70 264.98 466.03 Other financial assets - 416.82 98.21 149.57 673.06 1,337.66 Derivative financial instruments - - 0.17 1.98 1.99 4.14 33,124.53 5,949.73 1,024.42 6,479.53 30,741.45 77,319.66 Financial liabilities Trade payables 294.41 1,093.58 - - - 1,387.99 Lease obligations - 6.01 17.73 54.30 26.93 104.97 Deposits - - - 4.74 - 4.74 Derivative financial instruments - 2.05 3.26 11.66 1.25 18.22 294.41 1,101.64 20.99 70.70 28.18 1,515.92 213

ASSETS Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 134.72 - 134.72 386.21 - 386.21 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents - 36.20 36.20 - 34.02 34.02 Trade receivables 317.52 - 317.52 253.22 - 253.22 Loans 0.05 514.90 514.95 48.35 417.68 466.03 Investments 46,930.09 38,883.13 85,813.22 38,895.70 35,942.68 74,838.38 Derivative financial instrument - 14.73 14.73 0.17 3.97 4.14 Other financial assets 1,360.06 37.83 1,397.89 515.03 822.63 1,337.66 Non-financial assets Investment property - 30.35 30.35 - 34.36 34.36 Property, plant and equipment - 312.36 312.36 - 302.17 302.17 Capital work-in-progress - 16.08 16.08 - 15.28 15.28 Intangible assets under development - 49.33 49.33 - 32.50 32.50 Intangible assets (other than goodwill) - 16.76 16.76 - 14.77 14.77 Right to use of asset - 82.62 82.62 - 93.45 93.45 Reinsurance assets 37.78 267.91 305.69 29.64 185.02 214.66 Other non-financial assets 259.73 0.86 260.59 157.11 5.10 162.21 Total 49,039.95 40,263.06 89,303.01 40,285.43 37,903.63 78,189.06
LIABILITIES Financial liabilities Trade payables (i) Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises 1.00 - 1.00 0.08 - 0.08 (ii) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 1,321.90 - 1,321.90 848.11 - 848.11 Other payables (i) Total outstanding dues of other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 562.61 - 562.61 539.80 - 539.80 Derivative financial instrument 79.69 79.69 18.22 18.22 Deposits 0.12 4.74 4.86 - 4.74 4.74 Lease obligation 29.42 67.97 97.39 23.75 81.23 104.98 Investment contract liabilities 10,498.25 400.70 10,898.95 8,542.37 338.81 8,881.18 Insurance contract liabilities 11,220.57 53,118.21 64,338.78 9,317.64 46,256.22 55,573.86 Non-financial liabilities Current tax liabilities (net) 194.93 - 194.93 370.72 - 370.72 Provisions 4.20 20.27 24.47 20.14 16.46 36.60 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 166.15 - 166.15 210.23 - 210.23 Other non-financial liabilities 496.33 - 496.33 282.99 - 282.99 Total 24,575.17 53,611.89 78,187.06 20,174.05 46,697.46 66,871.51 214

undertaken by our most experienced investments team.
in variables, variables had to be changed on an individual basis. It should be noted that movements in these variables are non–linear.
exchange rate risk), whether those changes are caused by factors specific to the individual financial instrument or its issuer, or by factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.
changes in fair value of financial assets and liabilities whose fair values are recorded in the Statement of Profit and Loss).

claims, severity of claims, actual benefits paid and subsequent development of long-term claims.
Therefore, the objective of BALIC is to ensure that the sufficient reserves are available to cover these liabilities.
The main risk that BALIC is exposed are as follows i. Mortality risk: Risk of loss due to policyholder death experiences being different than expected.
ii. Longevity risk: Risk of loss arising due to annuitant living longer than expected.
iii. Persistency risk: Risk of loss arising due to policyholder experiences (lapses and surrenders) being different than expected.
iv. Morbidity risk: Risk of loss arising due to policyholder health experiences being different than expected.
v. Expenses risk: Risk of loss arising due to expense experiences being different than expected.
vi. Investment risk: Risk of loss arising due from actual returns being different than expected.
and geographical areas. The variability of the risk is also improved by careful selection and implementation of underwriting strategy guidelines, as well as the reinsurance arrangement.
investment returns. The underwriting team, with actuarial guidance, has set in place processes and procedures to review proposal. Many products offered by BALIC also have an investment guarantee.
BALIC has additional reserve to cover this risk.
deviation). BALIC keeps adequate MFAD, as prescribed in APS 7 issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India (IAI), in all assumptions over best estimate value.
amounts of claims (and claims could occur sooner than anticipated), which will increase the liability and reduce profit for shareholders.

annuity payments to be made, which will increase the liability and reduce profits for shareholders.
liabilities, consistent with long-term asset allocation strategy. These estimates are based on current market returns as well as expectations about future economic and financial developments.
An increase in investment return could lead to an increase in the profits for the shareholders.
and future administration expenses directly related to the contract, less the discounted value of expected theoretical premiums that would be required to meet these future cash outflows.
Discount rates are based on investment strategy of BALIC, current industry risk rates adjusted of BALIC's own risk exposure.
Decrease in a discount rate will increase the value of insurance liability and therefore reduce profits for the shareholders.
expense base, adjusted for expected expense inflation if appropriate. As increase in the level of expenses would result in an increase in expenditure, thereby reducing profits for the shareholders.
type, policy duration and sales trends. As increase in lapse rates early in the life of the policy would tend to reduce profits for shareholders, but later increase are broadly neutral in effect.
The best estimate assumptions that have the greatest effect on the statement of financial position and Statement of Profit and Loss of BALIC are listed below.

-As at 31 March 2021, partly called and paid unsecured debentures of ₹ 4,671.59 crore.

amounts before inter-company eliminations.
Bajaj Finance Ltd. General Insurance Life Insurance (Consolidated) Company Ltd. Company Ltd.

(Consolidated) Company Ltd. Company Ltd.

(Consolidated) Company Ltd. Company Ltd.
Bajaj Finance Ltd. General Insurance Life Insurance (Consolidated) Company Ltd. Company Ltd.

(Consolidated) Company Ltd. Company Ltd.
Bajaj Finance Ltd. General Insurance Life Insurance (Consolidated) Company Ltd. Company Ltd.

investments, due to variations in market interest rates.
transactions to hedge the risk of movements in interest rates for highly probable forecasted transactions as permitted by the IRDAI circular on interest rate derivatives.
entering the FRA, BALIC fixes the yield on future investments in a government bond. BALIC is using FRA instruments to hedge the interest rate risk arising out of highly probable forecasted future cash inflows.
These highly probable forecasted future cash inflows arise from already written policies or from interest income and redemption of investments.
strategic objectives, risk measures and functioning of the derivative transactions as per the hedging strategy. BALIC is following hedge accounting for all derivative transactions.
FRA undertaken by BALIC is solely for the purpose of hedging interest rate risks on account of following forecasted transactions:
a) Reinvestment of maturity proceeds of existing fixed income investments;
c) Expected policy premium income receivable on insurance contracts which are already underwritten in life and pension and annuity business.
during the year 1 6.79% GOI (MD 26/12/2029) - 319.45
2 7.88% GOI (MD 19/03/2030) - 214.97 3 7.61% GOI (MD 09/05/2030) - 206.48
4 8.97% GOI (MD 05/12/2030) - 231.70 5 6.68% GOI (MD 17/09/2031) 30.55 167.32
6 8.32% GOI (MD 02/08/2032) - 189.51 7 7.95% GOI (MD 28/08/2032) 238.37 524.57
8 8.24% GOI (MD 10/11/2033) - 100.31 9 7.40% GOI (MD 09/09/2035) 460.05 651.52
10 6.67% GOI (MD 15/12/2035) 1,654.54 - 11 8.33% GOI (MD 07/06/2036) 672.77 -

12 8.30% GOI (MD 31/12/2042) 175.76 - 13 8.17% GOI (MD 01/12/2044) 57.42 -
14 8.13% GOI (MD 22/06/2045) 56.44 - 15 7.06% GOI (MD 10/10/2046) 50.08 -
16 7.72% GOI (MD 15/06/2049) 75.40 - 17 6.99% GOI (MD 15/12/2051) 71.82 -
18 7.72% GOI (MD 26/10/2055) 66.84 - 19 6.80% GOI (MD 15/12/2060) 59.00 -
20 6.76% GOI (MD 22/02/2061) 407.91 - 21 6.95% GOI (MD 16/12/2061) 424.40 -
Total 4,501.35 2,605.83 (₹ In Crore) As at 31 March Sr. No. Particulars 2022 2021 ii) Total notional principal amount of Forward Rate Agreements outstanding at the year-end 1 6.79% GOI (MD 26/12/2029) 319.45 319.45
2 7.88% GOI (MD 19/03/2030) 214.97 214.97 3 7.61% GOI (MD 09/05/2030) 206.48 206.48
4 8.97% GOI (MD 05/12/2030) 231.70 231.70 5 6.68% GOI (MD 17/09/2031) 197.86 167.32
6 8.32% GOI (MD 02/08/2032) 189.51 189.51 7 7.95% GOI (MD 28/08/2032) 534.95 524.57
8 8.24% GOI (MD 10/11/2033) 100.31 100.31 9 7.40% GOI (MD 09/09/2035) 556.25 512.20
10 6.67% GOI (MD 15/12/2035) 1,654.54 - 11 8.33% GOI (MD 07/06/2036) 672.77 -
12 8.30% GOI (MD 31/12/2042) 175.76 - 13 8.17% GOI (MD 01/12/2044) 57.42 -
14 8.13% GOI (MD 22/06/2045) 56.44 - 15 7.06% GOI (MD 10/10/2046) 50.08 -
16 7.72% GOI (MD 15/06/2049) 75.40 - 17 6.99% GOI (MD 15/12/2051) 71.82 -
18 7.72% GOI (MD 26/10/2055) 66.84 - 19 6.80% GOI (MD 15/12/2060) 44.01 -
20 6.76% GOI (MD 22/02/2061) 384.10 - 21 6.95% GOI (MD 16/12/2061) 424.40 -
Total 6,285.06 2,466.51 iii) Notional principal amount of outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ as at balance sheet date - - iv) Mark-to-market value of FRA and not ‘highly effective’ as at balance sheet date - - 237

1 6.79% GOI (MD 26/12/2029) 4.24 2.68 2 7.88% GOI (MD 19/03/2030) (0.82) (1.67)
3 7.61% GOI (MD 09/05/2030) 1.19 0.12 4 8.97% GOI (MD 05/12/2030) 0.51 (0.93)
5 6.68% GOI (MD 17/09/2031) (2.84) (1.01) 6 8.32% GOI (MD 02/08/2032) (0.86) (0.11)
7 7.95% GOI (MD 28/08/2032) (3.91) (3.22) 8 8.24% GOI (MD 10/11/2033) (1.05) (0.70)
9 7.40% GOI (MD 09/09/2035) (15.90) (9.24) 10 6.67% GOI (MD 15/12/2035) (20.87) -
11 8.33% GOI (MD 07/06/2036) (13.84) - 12 8.30% GOI (MD 31/12/2042) 3.00 -
13 8.17% GOI (MD 01/12/2044) (0.86) - 14 8.13% GOI (MD 22/06/2045) (1.03) -
15 7.06% GOI (MD 10/10/2046) (0.71) - 16 7.72% GOI (MD 15/06/2049) (1.24) -
17 6.99% GOI (MD 15/12/2051) 0.80 - 18 7.72% GOI (MD 26/10/2055) 0.89 -
19 6.80% GOI (MD 15/12/2060) (1.54) - 20 6.76% GOI (MD 22/02/2061) (9.74) -
21 6.95% GOI (MD 16/12/2061) (0.37) - Total (64.95) (14.08) 238

An amount of ₹ 38.89 crore [Previous year ₹ (15.71) crore] was recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss on account of cash flow hedge.
Credit exposure 201.91 76.09 The credit exposure has been calculated on the basis of credit equivalent amount using the Current Exposure Method (CEM) which is sum of the following:
Hedge item 4.03 1.24 PV01 measures the change in the present value of the hedge instrument / item resulting from one basis point shift in the yield and OIS curve.

ultimate beneficiaries.
behalf of the funding party ('Ultimate Beneficiaries') or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the ultimate beneficiaries.
One of the subsidiary viz BHFL has received fund from entities (Funding Party) with the understanding that the BHFL shall directly or indirectly lend to other entities.

CIN: U55701PN1991PTC134103 BHFL does not have relationship in terms of Companies Act 2013 and Ind AS 24 with the funding parties and
beneficiaries companies.
1999) and Companies Act has been complied with and the transactions are not violative of the Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (15 of 2003).

debenture trustee on behalf of security holders and debenture holders.
For Bajaj Finance Ltd.
Amount as reported in quarterly return is adjusted for net stage 3 loan balances, interest accrued but not due and loans to related parties.

Bajaj Finance Ltd.
options of the face value of ₹ 10 each under the stock options scheme of BFL i.e. Employee Stock Option Plan 2009.
were adjusted from 2,507,116 equity shares of face value of ₹ 10 to 25,071,160 equity shares of face value of ₹ 2 each.
Further, vide the Special Resolution passed by the members of BFL through postal ballot on 19 April 2021, BFL has approved the increase in the aforesaid limit of options by 10,000,000 options.
The maximum limit under the scheme now stand revised from 25,071,160 options (adjusted for sub- division and bonus) to 35,071,160 options.
4 years with the vesting condition of continuous employment with BFL or subsidiaries of BFL except in case of death and retirement where the vesting would happen immediately.

Following table depicts range of exercise prices and weighted average remaining contractual life:

(Previous year ₹ 4,093.17).
Method used for accounting for share based payment plan BFL has used the fair value method to account for the compensation cost of stock options to employees.
The fair value of options used are estimated on the date of grant using the Black – Scholes Model.
in employee stock option outstanding account is ₹ 397.56 crore as of 31 March 2022 (Previous year ₹ 303.25 crore).

B ajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Ltd.
Expected dividend yield ₹ 5.00 ₹ 2.50 ₹ 1.75 ₹ 1.75
* Based on historical stock prices using annualised standard deviation of daily change in stock price.

Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Ltd.
years from the date of last vesting, subject to the norms prescribed by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee. The mode of settlement of the scheme is through equity shares of the Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Exercise price ₹ 10,091.35 ₹ 4,702.05 ₹ 7,454.70 ₹ 6,365.70 Graded Vesting Period:
Remaining contractual life (years) 6.07 5.31 4.43 3.33 - 6.13 5.12 4.29 The weighted average share price during the year was ₹ 14,609.67 (Previous year: ₹ 6,743.64).
* Including ESOP units of employee transferred within group companies.
Expected dividend per share ₹ 5.00 ₹ 2.50 ₹ 1.75 ₹ 1.75
* Based on historical stock prices using annualised standard deviation of daily change in stock price.

There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.

to be disclosed.

Particulars Insurance Co. Ltd. Insurance Co. Ltd. Bajaj Finance Ltd. Finance Ltd. Securities Ltd. Direct Ltd. Health Ltd. Ventures Ltd. Trustee Ltd. Management Ltd.
m % of shareholding 74.00% 74.00% 52.49% 100.00% * 100.00% * 80.10% # 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00%
* Held by Bajaj Finance Ltd.
# The remaining 19.90% shareholding is held by Bajaj Finance Ltd.
(₹ In Crore) Particulars Bajaj Allianz Financial Distributors Ltd. Bajaj Allianz Staffing Solutions Ltd.
d Description of how there is significant influence By way of shareholding By way of shareholding e Reason why associate/joint venture is not consolidated N.A. N.A.
Not considered in consolidation - -
* Held by Bajaj Allianz Financial Distributors Ltd.
225522

STANDALONE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

To The Members of Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
the standalone financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information ('the standalone financial statements').
and its profit and Other Comprehensive Income, Changes in Equity and its Cash Flows for the year then ended.
section 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the standalone financial statements section of our report.
Code of Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements.
Key audit matters
4. We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report.
standalone financial statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The other Information is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors' report.
6. Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
225544

fraud or error.
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the management either intends to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
10. The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process.
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
12. As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also:
a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
expressing our opinion on whether the Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
12.3. Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the management.
auditors' report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
including the disclosures, and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
225555

internal control that we identify during our audit.
other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
expressed an unmodified opinion on those audited standalone financial statements. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Government of India in terms of sub-section (11) of section 143 of the Act, we give in the 'Annexure A' a statement on the matters specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the order, to the extent applicable.
18. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
18.1. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit.
18.2. In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Company so far as it appears from our examination of those books.
Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the standalone Cash Flow Statement dealt with by this Report are in agreement with the books of account.
18.4. In our opinion, the aforesaid standalone financial statements comply with the Ind AS specified under Section 133 of the Act.
record by the Board of Directors, none of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March 2022 from being appointed as a director in terms of section 164(2) of the Act.
statements of the Company and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in 'Annexure B'.
the Company to its directors during the current year is in accordance with the provisions of Section 197 of the Act read with Schedule V to the Act.
225566

according to the explanations given to us:
19.1. The Company has disclosed the impact of pending litigations as at 31 March 2022 on its financial position in its standalone financial statements – Refer Note 27 to the standalone financial statements.
19.2. the Company did not have any long-term contracts including derivative contracts for which there were any material foreseeable losses.
19.3. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
procedures adopted by us, nothing has come to our notice that such representation contains any material misstatement.
procedures adopted by us, nothing has come to our notice that such representation contains any material misstatement.
19.6. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared during the year is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
ICAI Membership Number: 044000 UDIN: 22044000AHYQRC7111
Pune: 28 April 2022 225577

and situation of property, plant and equipment ('PPE').
The Company is maintaining proper records showing full particulars of intangible assets.
during the year. In our opinion, and according to the information and explanations given to us, no material discrepancies were noticed on such verification.
than properties where the Company is the lessee and the lease agreements are duly executed in favour of the lessee) disclosed in the financial statements are held in the name of the Company.
(d) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not revalued its PPE (including Right of Use assets) or intangible assets or both during the year.
holding any benami property under the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Act, 1988 (45 of 1988) and rules made thereunder.
ii. (a) The Company’s business does not involve inventories. Accordingly, the provision of clause 3(ii)(a) of the Order is not applicable to it.
have sanctioned working capital limits from banks or financial institutions which are secured on the basis of security. Accordingly, the provision of clause 3(ii)(b) of the Order is not applicable to it .
or any other parties during the year. Accordingly, paragraph 3(iii)(a) to (f) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
us, provision of section 186 of the Act in respect of investments made have been complied with by the Company.
relevant provisions of the Act and the rules framed there under. Accordingly, paragraph 3(v) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
225588

examination of the same.
duty of customs, cess and other material statutory dues were in arrears as at 31 March 2022 for a period of more than six months from the date they became payable.
sales-tax, service tax, duty of customs, duty of excise, value added tax, cess and any other statutory dues, have not been deposited to/with the appropriate authority on account of any dispute.
not recorded in the books of account which have been surrendered or disclosed as income during the year in the tax assessments under the Income Tax Act, 1961.
examination of the records of the Company, the Company did not have any outstanding loans or other borrowings to financial institutions, banks, government and dues to debenture holders.
we report that the Company has not been declared wilful defaulter by any bank or financial institution or government or any government authority or any other lender.
(c) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company has not raised any money obtained by way of term loans during the year.
225599

on short-term basis have been used for long-term purposes by the Company.
any entity or person on account of or to meet the obligations of its subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
report that the Company has not raised loans during the year on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries, joint ventures or associate companies.
x. (a) The Company did not raise money by way of initial public offer or further public offer (including debt instruments) during the year.
made any preferential allotment/private placement of shares/fully/partly/optionally convertible debentures during the year.
xi. (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, there has been no fraud by the Company or any fraud on the Company that has been noticed or reported during the year.
section 143 of the Act has been filed by the auditors in Form ADT-4 as prescribed under rule 13 of Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central Government.
(c) As represented to us by the Management, there are no whistle blower complaints received by the Company during the year.
xii. (a) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi company. Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the Company.
Act where applicable and details of such transactions have been disclosed in the financial statements as required by the applicable accounting standards.
xiv. (a) In our opinion and based on our examination, the Company has an internal audit system commensurate with the size and nature of its business.
(b) We have considered, during the course of our audit, the reports of the Internal Auditor’s for the period under audit in accordance with the guidance provided in SA 610 'Using the work of Internal Auditors'.
xv. According to the information and explanations given to us, in our opinion during the year the Company has not entered into any non-cash transactions with its directors or persons connected with its directors.
Accordingly, paragraph 3(xv) of the Order is not applicable to the Company. and hence provisions of section 192 of the Act, 2013 are not applicable to the Company.
xvi. (a) The Company is not required to be registered under Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
(b) The Company has not conducted any non-banking financial or housing finance activities without obtaining a valid CoR from the Reserve Bank of India as per the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
226600

India and continues to fulfil the criteria of an unregistered CIC.
Investment Companies (CICs) (Reserve Bank) Directions, 2016) there are 16 companies forming part of the promoter/promoter group of the Company which are CICs including the Company.
Further, as informed these CIC's are unregistered CICs as per Para 9.1 of notification No.
RBI/2020-21/24 dated 13 August 2020 of the Reserve Bank of India.
xvii. The Company has not incurred any cash losses in the financial year and in the immediately preceding financial year.
27 October 2021. As informed, there have been no issues, objections or concerns raised by the said outgoing auditors.
assurance that all liabilities falling due within a period of one year from the Balance Sheet date, will get discharged by the Company as and when they fall due.
under report to a fund specified in Schedule VII to the Companies Act in compliance with second proviso to sub section 5 of section 135 of the said Act.
records of the Company, there is no amount which is remaining unspent under sub section 5 of section 135 of the Act pursuant to any ongoing CSR project.
xxi. Reporting under clause xxi of the Order is not applicable at the standalone level of reporting.
ICAI Membership Number: 044000 UDIN: 22044000AHYQRC7111
Pune: 28 April 2022 226611

statements under clause (i) of sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Bajaj Finserv Ltd. ('the Company') as at 31 March 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year ended on that date.
on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India ('the Guidance Note').
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
controls with reference to the standalone financial statements were established and maintained and whether such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
standalone financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
for our audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements.
226622

transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company;
use, or disposition of the Company’s assets that could have a material effect on the standalone financial statements.
statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
ICAI Membership Number: 044000 UDIN: 22044000AHYQRC7111
Pune: 28 April 2022 226633

ASSETS Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 3 21.62 24.25 Bank balances other than cash and cash equivalents 4 0.43 100.42 Trade receivables 5 2.70 0.52 Investment in subsidiaries and joint venture 6A 3,039.04 2,394.66 Other investments 6B 1,152.24 1,100.31 Other financial assets 7 56.61 37.85 4,272.64 3,658.01 Non-financial assets Current tax assets (net) 48.40 46.85 Investment property 8 5.24 5.37 Property, plant and equipment 9A 105.06 153.19 Capital work-in-progress 9B 4.08 2.29 Other non-financial assets 10 3.00 2.82 165.78 210.52 Total 4,438.42 3,868.53 226644

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY LIABILITIES
Financial liabilities Trade payables 11 Total outstanding dues of micro enterprises and small enterprises - - Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro enterprises and small enterprises 2.03 2.15 Other financial liabilities 12 38.42 31.96 40.45 34.11 Non-financial liabilities Current tax liabilities (net) 17.41 17.41 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 13 3.79 6.63 Provisions 14 5.60 6.36 Other non-financial liabilities 15 2.97 3.10 29.77 33.50 EQUITY
Equity share capital 16 79.57 79.57 Other equity 17 4,288.63 3,721.35 4,368.20 3,800.92 Total 4,438.42 3,868.53 Summary of significant accounting policies followed by the Company 2 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements As per our report of even date On behalf of the Board of Directors For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Chartered Accountants S Sreenivasan Sanjiv Bajaj ICAI Firm Registration Number: 105146W/W100621 Chief Financial Officer Chairman & Managing Director Ketan S Vikamsey Partner ICAI Membership Number: 044000 Uma Shende Madhur Bajaj Pune: 28 April 2022 Company Secretary Director 226655

Adjustments to reconcile profit before tax to net cash flows:
Add:
25.23 23.86 Less:
226688

been classified into operating and investing activity based on the intention of the Management at the time of purchase of securities.
226699

are listed on two recognised stock exchanges in India.
dated 13 August 2020. As an Unregistered CIC, the Company must invest at least 90% of its net assets in Group companies, of which at least 60% must be through equity investments.
(Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015, as amended from time to time, other relevant provisions of the Act and the RBI guidelines/regulations to the extent applicable on an accrual basis.
The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value.
The financial statements are presented in INR, which is also the Company’s functional currency and all values are rounded to the nearest crore (INR 0,000,000), except when otherwise indicated.
upon Management’s evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances as of the date of the financial statements, which may differ from the actual results at a subsequent date.
The Company recognises income (including rent, etc.) on accrual basis to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured.
However, where the ultimate collection of revenue lacks reasonable certainty, revenue recognition is postponed.
method. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset.
by considering all the contractual terms of the financial instrument but does not consider the expected credit losses.
recognises interest income using a rate of return that represents the best estimate of a constant rate of return over the expected life of the instrument.

subsequently amortised through interest income in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
is established, and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the dividend will flow to the Company and that the amount of the dividend can be measured reliably.
with customers and revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which Company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
transmission losses over time. Simultaneously, relevant entitlements for generating green energy are recognised to the extent the ultimate collection is reasonably certain.
Company exercises judgment, taking into consideration all the relevant facts and circumstances when applying each step of the model to contracts with their customers.
4. Rent and other income The Company recognises income (including rent) on accrual basis.
i) Property, plant and equipment, capital work in progress except land are carried at cost of acquisition or construction as the case may be, less accumulated depreciation and amortisation.
lives. Likewise, when a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognised in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a replacement if the recognition criteria are satisfied.
appropriate, and treated as changes in accounting estimates. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the Statement of Profit and Loss as incurred.
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset) is included in the Statement of Profit and Loss when the asset is derecognised.

Premium on leasehold land is amortised over the period of lease.
and equipment (including components thereof) to their residual values over their estimated useful lives. Land is not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are, as follows:
ii. Useful life of assets/components are determined by the Management by internal technical assessments.
iii. Depreciation on additions is being provided on pro rata basis from the month of such additions.
iv. Depreciation on assets sold, discarded or demolished during the year is being provided up to the month in which such assets are sold, discarded or demolished.
equipment are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted prospectively, if necessary and appropriate.
asset/Cash Generating Unit (CGU) is made. Where the carrying value of the asset/CGU exceeds the recoverable amount, the carrying value is written down to the recoverable amount.
pro rata basis on straight line method over the estimated useful lives. Useful life of assets, as assessed by the Management, corresponds to those prescribed by Schedule II - Part ‘C’ of the Act.
Interest in subsidiaries and joint venture are recognised at cost and not adjusted to fair value at the end of each reporting period. Cost represents amount paid for acquisition of the said investments.
Loans and other similar arrangements with subsidiaries which are probable to be settled for a fixed number of equity shares of the borrower for a fixed price are classified as equity investments.

investment and provides for impairment, if any i.e. the deficit in the recoverable value over cost.
I. Classification The Company classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:
income (FVTOCI), or through profit or loss (FVTPL)), and
• those to be measured subsequently at amortised cost.
The classification is done depending upon the Company’s business model for managing the financial assets and the contractual terms of the cash flows.
profit or loss or other comprehensive income, as elected. For assets classified as ’measured at amortised cost’, this will depend on the business model and contractual terms of the cash flows.
The Company determines its business model at the level that best reflects how it manages groups of financial assets to achieve its business objective.
The Company's business model is not assessed on an instrument-by-instrument basis, but at a higher level of aggregated portfolios and is based on observable factors such as:
assets held in that business model, but incorporates such information when assessing newly originated or newly purchased financial assets going forward.
As a second step of its classification process the Company assesses the contractual terms of financial instruments to identify whether they meet the SPPI test.
‘Principal’ for the purpose of this test is defined as the fair value of the financial asset at initial recognition and may change over the life of the financial asset.
The most significant elements of interest within a lending arrangement are typically the consideration for the time value of money and credit risk.

asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at ’FVTPL’ are expensed in profit or loss.
managing the financial asset and the cash flow characteristics of the financial asset. There are two measurement categories into which the Company classifies its financial instruments:
or impaired. Interest income from these financial assets is included in investment income using the effective interest rate method.
measured at FVTPL is recognised in profit or loss and presented net in the Statement of Profit and Loss with other gains/(losses) in the period in which it arises.
there has been a significant increase in credit risk and if so, assess the need to provide for the same in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
The Company follows ‘simplified approach’ for recognition of impairment loss allowance on trade receivables.
risk. Rather, it recognises impairment loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date, right from its initial recognition.
Lifetime ECL are the expected credit losses resulting from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
for each of these instruments is considered in estimating the probable credit loss over life time of such securities.
is recognised as income/expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss. This amount is reflected under the head ‘other expenses’ in the Statement of Profit and Loss.

allowance, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the Balance Sheet.
The allowance reduces the net carrying amount. Until the asset meets write-off criteria, the Company does not reduce impairment allowance from the gross carrying amount.
business line. Financial liabilities are never reclassified. The Company did not reclassify any of its financial assets or liabilities in 2021-22 and 2020-21.
evaluates whether it has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset. In such cases, the financial asset is derecognised.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.
any time during the tenure of employment the liability is recognised on the basis of an independent actuarial valuation.
The Company’s liability towards long-term incentive plan, being a defined benefit plan, is accounted for on the basis of an independent actuarial valuation.
projected unit credit method. The benefits are discounted using the market yields at the end of the reporting period that have terms approximating to the terms of the related obligation.
Remeasurements as a result of experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in Statement of Profit and Loss.
deficit in plan assets managed by LIC and BALIC as compared to the liability on the basis of an independent actuarial valuation is recognised as a liability.
fair value of plan assets. The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by actuaries using the projected unit credit method.

recognised in other comprehensive income.
share based payments reserve. The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted:
service conditions. It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
balance in share based payments reserve is transferred to share capital to the extent of face value of equity shares and balance into securities premium account.
the related balance standing to the credit of the share based payments reserve is transferred within other equity.
to employees of the subsidiary companies is considered as capital contribution/investment in the subsidiary.
Employee Stock Option Scheme. The Company treats EBT as its extension and shares held by EBT are treated as treasury shares.
carrying amount and the consideration, if reissued or sold, is recognised in capital reserve. Share options exercised during the reporting period are settled with treasury shares.
E. Defined contribution plans The Company has three defined contribution plans for its employees:

a reduction in future payment or a cash refund.
Income computation and Disclosure standards prescribed therein. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date.
in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where appropriate.
profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or in equity). Current tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
forward and utilised. In the year in which the Company recognises MAT credit as an asset, it is created by way of credit to the Statement of Profit and Loss and shown as part of deferred tax asset.
The Company reviews the ’MAT credit entitlement’ asset at each reporting date and writes down the asset to the extent that it is no longer probable that it will pay normal tax during the specified period.
d. Deferred tax is provided using the asset-liability method on temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences.
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.

to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation authority.
9. Goods and service tax/value added taxes paid on acquisition of assets or on incurring expenses.
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the goods and services tax/value added taxes paid, except:
The net amount of tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance Sheet.
probably will not, require an outflow of resources. When the likelihood of outflow of resources is remote, no provision or disclosure is made.
that reflects, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
incentives received. Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
of the asset. The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to note 3C for accounting policies on impairment of non-financial assets.

comprise of fixed payments.
determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made.
exemption to leases of office equipment that are considered to be low value. Lease payments on short-term leases are recognised as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period.
Earnings considered in ascertaining the Company’s earnings per share is the net profit for the period.
equity shareholders and the weighted average number of share outstanding during the period is adjusted for the effects of all dilutive potential equity shares.
Chief Operating Decision Maker. The Core Management Committee examines performance both from product and a geographical perspective.
The standalone financial statements are presented in INR which is also functional currency of the Company.

exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
currency at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date. All differences arising on non–trading activities are taken to other income/expense in the Statement of Profit and Loss.
Non–monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the spot exchange rates as at the date of recognition.
The Company recognises a liability to make cash distributions to equity holders of the Company when the distribution is authorised and the distribution is no longer at the discretion of the Company.
balance sheet date. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either:
• In the principal market for the asset or liability, or
• In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible by the Company.
would use when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole:
• Level 3 — Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.

measurement of financial assets, which includes valuation techniques and inputs to use for each case.
on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.

which any director is a partner, a director or a member.

* Refer note 2B. 5) A.
All investments in 6A and 6B above are within India.

There are no contractual obligations to purchase, construct or develop investment property.
Investment properties are leased out to tenants under operating leases. Disclosure on future rent receivable is included in Note 33.
Estimation of fair value The best evidence of fair value is current prices in an active market for similar properties.
rates prevailing for similar properties in those location determined by an independent registered valuer and consequently classified as a level 2 valuation.

(a) Refer note 2B clause 3) of summary of significant accounting policies.
(b) Excludes premises held as investment properties and given on lease disclosed as an investment. Correspondingly depreciation for the year on investment property amounting to ₹ 0.13 crore (previous year ₹ 0.13 crore) has been reduced from the said Investments under note 8.
(c) Includes proportionate ownership in land consequent to acquisition of office premises under a Deed of Apartment, at an attributed cost of ₹ 2.94 crore.
(d) All title deeds of immovable properties are held in the name of the Company.

There are no projects temporarily suspended and hence not required to be disclosed separately.
terms of payments not exceeding 45 days, which has been promptly paid, no liability exists as at 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2021 and hence no disclosures have been made in this regard.

MSME - - - - - - Others 1.81 0.19 0.01 0.01 0.01 2.03 31 March 2021
MSME - - - - - - Others 1.71 0.36 0.04 0.03 0.01 2.15 12 Other financial liabilities (₹ In Crore) As at 31 March Particulars 2022 2021 Unclaimed dividend 0.43 0.42 Directors' remuneration and commission payable 12.22 8.77 Employee benefits payable 23.12 19.84 Security deposits 2.14 2.14 Others 0.51 0.79 38.42 31.96 13 Deferred tax liabilities (net) (₹ In Crore) As at 31 March Particulars 2022 2021 Deferred tax liabilities On account of timing difference in Property, plant and equipment 5.75 6.82
Retiral and other employee benefits:

Retiral and other employee benefits:

amounts. The distribution will be in proportion to the number of equity shares held by the shareholders.
the Company had issued and allotted 154 of such equity shares at the offered price of ₹ 650, thereby collecting ₹ 0.01 crore as premium. During the year, the Company did not issue any such equity shares.

limited purposes in accordance with section 52 and other provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
General reserve is free reserve available for distribution as recommended by Board in accordance with requirements of the Companies Act, 2013.
Share based payments reserve is created as required by Ind AS 102 ’Share Based Payments’ on the employee stock option scheme operated by the Company.
purchased and held by ESOP Trust. Trust to transfer such shares to employees at the time of exercise of option by employees.

Amount spent in cash during the year on:
0.45 0.73 There is no shortfall at the end of the year out of the amount required to be spent by the Company.
The Company has incurred expenditure under CSR activities towards its direct employability and skill development initiatives, therapy of hearing impaired students and free cleft reconstruction surgeries of children from poor families.

In all the cases mentioned above, outflow is not probable and hence not provided by the Company.
It is not practicable for the Company to estimate the timings of the cash flows, if any, in respect of the above pending resolution of the respective proceedings.
The Company has 57,180 (Previous year 99,130) renewable energy certificates (REC) including 3,671 (Previous year 14,507) RECs at various stages for regulatory approvals.

with the principles set out in the Indian Accounting Standard 19 the details of which are as hereunder.
scheme. Employees who are in continuous service for a period of 5 years are eligible for gratuity. The gratuity plan is a funded plan and the Company makes contributions to approved gratuity fund.

reporting period arising on account of an increase or decrease in the reported assumption by 50 basis points.
been no changes from the previous periods in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis.
Funding arrangement and policy The money contributed by the Company to the fund to finance the liabilities of the plan has to be invested.
The trustees of the plan have outsourced the investment management of the fund to insurance companies.
The insurance companies in turn manage these funds as per the mandate provided to them by the trustees and the asset allocation which is within the permissible limits prescribed in the insurance regulations.
philosophy is to fund the benefits based on its own liquidity and tax position as well as level of under funding of the plan.

seniority, promotions and other relevant factors, such as demand and supply in the employment market.

financial statements.
risks and returns are primarily determined by the nature of products and services. Consequently, geographical segment has been considered as a secondary segment.
the risks and returns and internal performance reporting systems The business segments comprise the following:

A Subsidiaries :
Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Co. Ltd.
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 0.08 - - - Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
Rent paid 0.10 - - - Bajaj Finance Ltd.
(52.49% shares held by Bajaj Finserv Ltd.

Bajaj Finserv Direct Ltd.
(80.10% shares held by Bajaj Finserv Ltd.
Employee car transfer 0.34 - - - Bajaj Finserv Health Ltd.
Employee car transfer 0.31 - 0.18 - Bajaj Finserv Ventures Ltd.
Revenue expenses reimbursement received 0.06 - - - Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Ltd.
Business support service rendered 1.37 - - - Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund Trustee Ltd.
(Fully owned subsidiary) Contribution to equity (50,000 shares of ₹ 10 each) 0.05 0.05 - - Bajaj Housing Finance Ltd.
Interest received on non-convertible debentures 9.00 - - - Bajaj Financial Securities Ltd.

B Associates, joint venture and investing parties:
Employee car transfer 0.06 - - - Bajaj Allianz Financial Distributors Ltd.
Distributors Ltd.) Business support services received 0.08 - 0.06 - C Key management personnel and their relatives:

D Other entities/persons:
Name of the related party and nature of the related party relationship where control exists have been disclosed irrespective of whether or not there have been transactions between the related parties. In other cases, disclosure has been made only when there have been transactions with those parties.
Related parties as defined under para 9 of Ind AS 24 'Related Party Disclosures' have been identified based on representations made by key managerial personnel and information available with the Company.

also includes escalation clause.

(b) measured at amortised cost and for which fair values are disclosed in the financial statements.
Company has classified its financial instruments into the three levels prescribed under the Accounting Standard, which are explained herein below.

valuation technique.
of valuation techniques, as explained below Level 1: Level 1 hierarchy includes financial instruments measured using quoted prices in active markets.
trades take place in a linked or unlinked active market. This includes traded bonds and mutual funds, as the case may be, that have quoted price/rate/value.
derived from prices) and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates. If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in level 2.
included in level 3. This is the case for unlisted equity securities, contingent consideration and indemnification asset included in level 3.
Valuation techniques used to determine fair value include
• Open ended mutual funds and certain bonds and debentures at NAV's/rates declared and/or quoted.
• Close ended mutual funds at NAV's declared by AMFI.
tenures, quoted on sites of credible organisation such as ICRA (Investment Information and Credit Rating Agency).
• Commercial papers and certificate of deposits, being short-term maturity papers, amortised cost is assumed to be the fair value.

due to their short-term nature.
monitoring subject to risk limits and other controls. The Company’s activities expose it to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
This note explains the sources of risk which the Company is exposed to and how the entity manages the risk.
the Board of Directors. Accordingly, Company’s Risk Management Committee identifies, evaluates and manages financial risks.
a financial loss to the Company. Credit risk primarily arises from cash equivalents, financial assets measured at amortised cost, financial assets measured at FVTPL and trade receivables.
approvals, establishing credit limit and continuously monitoring the credit worthiness of customers to whom credit is extended (substantially through debt securities) in the normal course of business.
on an on-going basis. Counter party exposure limits maybe updated as and when required, subject to approval of Board of Directors.

working capital is sufficient to meet the financial liabilities within maturity period.
through funds). The Company is exposed to price risk on such investments; which arises on account of movement in interest rates, liquidity and credit quality of underlying securities.
funds primarily in debt instruments of its subsidiary with CRISIL AAA and STABLE A1+ rating and thus the Company does not have significant risk exposure.
Company (CIC) as per Reserve Bank of India Guidelines dated 13 August 2020 and is not exposed to any regulatory imposed capital requirements.
of capital for operations. Investment objective is to provide safety and adequate return on the surplus funds. The Company does not have any borrowings.
No changes in this regard were made in the objectives, policies and processes of capital management during the year.

Guidelines dated 13 August 2020 and is not exposed to any regulatory imposed capital requirements.
Thus, the following analytical ratios are not applicable to the Company:
3. Tier II CRAR
4. Liquidity Coverage Ratio.

which the options would vest. Such options would vest when the performance parameters are met.
under the plan are for no consideration and carry no dividend or voting rights. On exercise, each option is convertible into one equity share.
exercise price, the term of the option, the share price at grant date and expected volatility of the underlying share, the expected dividend yield and the risk free interest rate for the term of the option.

adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publicly available information.
a. The Company has performed an assessment to identify transactions with struck off companies as at 31 March 2022 and no such company was identified.
of the Company ('Ultimate Beneficiaries') or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
funding party ('Ultimate Beneficiaries') or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
d. The Company has not traded or invested in crypto currency or virtual currency during the financial year.
e. The Company does not have any Benami property, where any proceeding has been initiated or pending against the Company for holding any Benami property.

There have been no events after the reporting date that require disclosure in these financial statements.
Amounts less than ₹ 50,000 have been shown at actual against respective line items statutorily required to be disclosed.

NOTES

NOTES

[EMPTY PAGE]

“It is important that all of us work honestly, ethically and make all our choices consciously”.
- Rahul Bajaj BAJAJ FINSERV LIMITED
Bajaj Auto Ltd. Complex, Mumbai-Pune Road, Pune-411 035 www.bajajfinserv.in/corporate-bajaj-finserv

Being Responsive Being Responsible Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report (also includes elements of Environmental, Social and Governance) FY2022

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Contents 02 10 Preface Details of our ESG initiatives A. Corporate Governance 10 B. Reaching Financial Services to 03 Millions of Indians 15 C. Preserving and Protecting Environment 17 About Bajaj Finserv D. Empowering Society 21 E. Customer Centricity 27 04 F. Human Capital Management 32 G. Information Security, Cyber Security Message from the and Fraud Controls 39 Chairman & Managing Director H. Stakeholder Engagement 43 06 46 Highlights During the Year Statutory Reporting A. Business Responsibility & Sustainability 47 Report (BRSR) - Independent Verification Statement 07 B. Statutory Disclosures - BRSR 50 Our Focus Areas C. GHG Independent Verification Statement 81 08 Summary of Our Major Initiatives Towards Furtherance of ESG

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 About the Cover The cover image showcases a macro view of the vastness of a landscape of forests and lush greenery, a symbolic representation of the vision that Bajaj Finserv takes of the financial services businesses from the standpoint of its role as a Group entity. The caption of the theme ‘Being Responsive, Being Responsible’ speaks of our broader commitment to the community, playing the role of a responsive and responsible corporate organisation - being responsive to the needs while acting responsibly through our various ventures as befits a market leader and a holding company of our size.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Preface The Securities and Exchange previous years, has been Board of India (SEBI) from presented for the consolidated FY2023 has mandated India’s Group.
the National Guidelines on ethical and inclusive manner.
published by the Ministry of commitment towards enhancing Corporate Affairs (“NGRBCs”) customer value.
in 2019.
(the “SEBI Listing Regulations”). bajajfinserv.in) have not This Report, consistent with necessarily been repeated here.
been presented for the consolidated Group.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 About Bajaj Finserv BFS is the holding company for financial services business under the Bajaj Group. Its vision is to provide financial solutions for retail and SME customers through their life cycle.
BFS’s areas of business are:
NSE. BFL also participates in held by Allianz SE. technology.
another 100% unlisted subsidiary, Maharashtra with an aggregate requirements for the final licence Bajaj Financial Securities Limited installed capacity of 65.2 MW. for mutual funds.
one digital platform. capital investments and BFS, through its subsidiary, Bajaj (ii) an alternate class of assets.
(including health insurance); and Bajaj Finserv Health Limited equity shares are listed on BSE (ii) Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance (BFHL), a health tech venture, and NSE.
Total income Net profit* Total assets FY2022 68,439 4,557 3,33,719
FY2021 60,592 4,470 2,80,164
* attributable to owners of the Company 3 EESSGG iinniittiiaattiivveess SSttaattuuttoorryy rreeppoorrttiinngg

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Message from the Chairman & Managing Director ESG is not just the right thing to do, it is what will shape a better tomorrow for all!
unique experiences help us become with this belief. We have built it into our corporate citizen to serve the needs of more accepting of our new realities to business philosophy. an aspirational new India.
thrive in a new, emerging environment.
emerging world, being responsible for to serve society, a long cherished value the nation's sustainable development one's environment and communities is further strengthened by the legendary and its people's inclusive growth.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

BBaajjaajj FFiinnsseerrvv LLiimmiitteedd BBuussiinneessss RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy && SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt FFYY22002222 ESG is not just a part but the the families of children undergoing of today but go beyond to shape the core of our sustainable long-term treatment for curable diseases or responsibility benchmarks of tomorrow.
We have developed a robust model prolonged treatment.
diversified and innovative portfolio of awareness about preventive total integrity, that furthers all financial products and services. For healthcare, immunisation needs, stakeholders' interests.
our GHG emissions but also obtained years, is for the protection of our and dietary habits for children.
independent assurance over the same.
and skilling programmes help enhance last year was to open 50 inclusion variability of weather.
today to nurture a better tomorrow, their communities. plan to open another 50 branches we are continually investing in eco- during FY2023.
Conduct, thereby taking another we can consume annually.
invested in the dire need of addressing of our social development credo, and organisation.
preventing crime against children. As we move towards the expansion through concerted measures.
graduates from smaller towns and needs of the lesser advantaged dedication of our People.
back in 2015, and has so far benefitted responsiveness and responsibility we operate.
During FY2022, Bajaj Group joined across the country, which we achieved to do, it is what will shape a better forces with the local government in collaboration with our partner tomorrow for all!
administered during those drives. edge to compete for the limited job opportunities in the BFSI industry.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Highlights During the Year Mega Adoption of Installation of Vaccination Responsible rooftop solar drive by Investment generation Bajaj Group principles by plants at 3 administered Insurance offices and over 1 million subsidiaries raw hard water doses of treatment plant COVID-19 at an office vaccines As committed Adoption of Early voluntary in FY2021, BFL consistent adoption of opened 50 Code of Ethics SEBI’s BRSR financial inclusion and Personal for FY2022 and branches in rural Conduct across independent and backward BFS Group assurance areas in FY2022 thereon and is committed to open another 50 such branches in FY2023 Accounting of Bajaj Finserv Voluntary greenhouse gas employability third-party emissions and initiative assessments independent ‘BEYOND’ for 19 assurance enters northern Corporate thereon and eastern Social (FY2021 and states of India, Responsibility FY2022) placement partner division organisations established 6 EESSGG iinniittiiaattiivveess SSttaattuuttoorryy rreeppoorrttiinngg

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Our Focus Areas The ambit of ESG is wide and also evolving. It is our firm belief that in order to achieve our ESG objectives and have a greater impact, we need to be focussed on identified areas rather than spreading wide. Accordingly, in our Responsible and Sustainable Business Conduct policy, we have identified following as our areas of focus:
society. minimise / eliminate and well-being of the adverse society.
operations on the environment.
experience based opportunities and responsible and promote for professional business practices.
professional, fair development and and transparent growth.
dealings.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Summary of Our Major Initiatives Towards ESG In line with its sustained focus on furthering its ESG goals, the BFS Group continues to take targeted initiatives with deep-rooted responsibility and accountability towards its stakeholders. The summary of major initiatives is narrated below:
EESSGG iinniittiiaattiivveess SSttaattuuttoorryy rreeppoorrttiinngg

BBaajjaajj FFiinnsseerrvv LLiimmiitteedd BBuussiinneessss RReessppoonnssiibbiilliittyy && SSuussttaaiinnaabbiilliittyy RReeppoorrtt FFYY22002222 Human capital management Customer centricity  More than 58,000 employees underwent 0.9 million hours  Charters and policies to protect interest of customers of training to upskill / multi-skill themselves  Use of technology to enhance customer experience  Gender pay parity with median remuneration for FY2022  Dedicated customer complaint reduction units, to review at ` 0.05 crore across the Group the grievance redressal mechanism with Board oversight  Offered equal growth opportunities through auto  Customer education and awareness campaigns promotions / internal job posting mechanism — more than 14,300 employees moved to new roles  Recognised for innovative customer service and related initiatives  Covid-19 initiatives for employees and their families:
prevention for employees, customers and value chain  Continuous engagement with value chain partners partners.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Details of Our ESG Initiatives Corporate Governance For us, corporate governance is a reflection of principles entrenched in our values and policies and also embedded in our day-to-day business practices, leading to value- driven growth. The commitment of Bajaj Group to the highest standards of corporate governance predates the provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations and clause 49 of the erstwhile Listing Agreement. Ethical dealings, transparency, fairness, disclosure and accountability are the main thrust of the working of the Bajaj Group. The Company maintains the same tradition and commitment. Through its representation on the Boards of the subsidiaries, BFS seeks the of key Group principles of corporate governance across its subsidiaries.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Building on Corporate  Half-yearly communication from the Governance Chairman to all shareholders of the Six meetings of ESG Company giving an update on the Key governance practices are as Company’s performance Committee members follows: were held across the  Adoption of key governance BFS Group along with an  Compliance with applicable law policies and codes by the Board update presentation to in line with best practices, which  Number of Board and Committee are made available to stakeholders Board of Directors of Group meetings more than the statutory for downloading/viewing from the companies on overall ESG requirement, including meetings Company’s website strategy.
futuristic step towards being a more  Confidential Board evaluation  The Company has indicated material responsible and ethical organisation.
provided to Board members in Integrity a separate Code of Conduct for its advance to enable them to evaluate Directors and Senior Management.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022  The Company, through its Chairman  Led by its zero-tolerance towards & Managing Director, has signed the unethical business practices, the Zero tolerance towards following charters of Confederation BFS Group ensures adherence to of Indian Industry (‘CII’): necessary policies with respect to unethical business anti-fraud, anti-bribery, conflict practices.
counselling, warning, suspension, labour. decisions.
and pay deduction to termination are taken.
The successful milestones of the Company, its subsidiaries and key personnel, found appreciation in various prestigious awards during the year. Some of those are listed below:
BFS  Late Rahul Bajaj, Chairman Emeritus of Bajaj Group, was conferred with the ‘Hall of Fame’ honour at the
CNBC-TV18 India Business Leader Awards, 2022 for his extraordinary leadership over the years.
 S. Sreenivasan, Chief Financial Officer of Bajaj Finserv, was conferred with the ‘CFO of the Year BFSI & Fintech’ Award in 2021 by CII.
BFL BAGIC  Rajeev Jain, Managing  Conferred with ‘General Insurance Company of the Year’ at India
Director, was conferred with Insurance Summit and Awards 2022.
honour in the prestigious at the 20th edition of the Outlook Money Awards.
Best CEOs rankings in March 2022.
BALIC  Sandeep Jain, Chief Financial Officer, was conferred with the Best Financial Minds in India  Awarded for the ‘Highest Growth’ category at the ASSOCHAM 13th Global
INC - Financial Express CFO Insurance E-Summit and Awards.
Awards 2022.
ET BFSI Excellence Awards 2021 under ‘Best Digital Customer Experience Initiative [Insurance]’.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Engaging in prudent and responsible business conduct Imbued in BFS Group is a strong culture of responsible business conduct for building long-term businesses and providing sustainable growth, and meeting the interests of its stakeholders. Besides adopting high standards of governance, the Group remains committed to prudent business practices in order to ensure that businesses are not exposed to undue risks.
Some of the prudent business practices we follow are enumerated below:
 Recognising the risks that our businesses carry and keeping the interest of our stakeholders into consideration, all material subsidiaries maintain liquidity / solvency in excess of the norms laid down by the relevant regulators:
subsidiaries comprises the highest initiatives. shall be implemented in a credit-rated securities (sovereign / structured manner.
company. Risk management systems strategy award at the 3rd emerging variable pay and long-term incentive are well structured and robustly Asia Insurance award 2021. (including stock options).
FY2023 with portfolio quality principles. Driven by this principle, have adopted Responsible Investment better than pre-Covid. all the Companies in the Group are principles.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Striving for Women Empowerment Women empowerment is one of the key priorities for sustainable and inclusive development of the society. We have several initiatives for empowerment of women, within the Group and outside, which steers women empowerment agenda.
safety, cab facility, women more than 45,000 women have and livelihood (refer to travel policy, flexible working been insured under this plan. ‘Empowering Society’ section.
 Provided financing access,  Female student enrolment in preferential transfers and so on.
 Insurance subsidiaries provide few years from 11% as of sector.
opportunities to women —  More than 0.2 million women 31 March 2022.
 Over the last three years, represent 26.9% of our total focussed CSR projects active as the gender mix of the total insurance agents as of of 31 March 2022.
employees hired during the year 31 March 2022.
female ratio from 12% in FY2020 to 21% in FY2022.
award 2022 by The Economic Times.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Reaching Financial Services to Millions of Indians At BFS Group, there is an all-pervasive belief in the importance of providing access to individuals and businesses, across the country, to relevant financial products and services. It is our constant endeavour to enable individuals and businesses to meet their transactional, payments, credit, insurance and savings needs through such access.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 The Group operates over 4,200 the previous fiscal, BFL opened branches across the country, through 50 financial inclusion branches in The Group operates which it provides financial products to unbanked rural centres in FY2022.
financial products to digital presence. and unbanked rural customers.
millions of Indians.
local capabilities and create a robust norms.
schemes, insured over 48.4 million 10 cities of India2.
` 3,040 crores in loans under the beneficiaries / 12.98 million families.
 The Group has developed a robust ticket financing products, thus Housing Board.
underprivileged and underserved realising its commitment listed in new-to-credit customers.
population of the society to own a productive asset and earn a living.
fiscal, BFL opened 50 financial inclusion branches in commercial vehicles and disbursed unbanked rural centres in FY2022. It has now committed ` 6,190 crore.
areas in FY2023 to expand its reach to under-banked and unbanked rural customers.
Rural Sector Obligation Social Sector Obligation BAGIC BALIC BAGIC BALIC
IRDAI IRDAI 7% 20% 5% 5% requirement requirement
FY2022 12.6% 28.6% FY2022 8.7% 12.3% FY2021 20.5% 28.9% FY2021 20.5% 11.8%
2 Top 10 cities by population identified as per Census 2011 16 ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Preserving and Protecting Environment As a financial services group, BFS does not have a sizeable consumption of any raw material, nor does it produce any tangible goods. Even as we continue providing financial solutions to serve the needs of people, we nurture a culture of conservation and reduce dependence on natural resources.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 As committed in our Report for FY2021, we have completed the accounting of our GHG emissions for FY2021, and FY2022 for the BFS Group and an independent assurance has been obtained on the same.
Refer GHG emission - Independent Verification statement by DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited for the detailed report.
To uphold our environment and work towards a green planet, we continue to make our operations more sustainable.
ii) eco-friendly offices and practices, iii) reducing paper consumption and iv) products that preserve and protect the environment. These initiatives are detailed below:
(i) Off-setting environmental impact Following initiatives assist in offsetting the impact of businesses on environment:
Renewable Energy The Group is currently a net generator of renewable power:
over 74 million* units of electricity, which is about two times the electricity consumed by the BFS Group3.
 Two large offices in Pune have a rainwater harvesting facility, with an aggregate capacity of 14,600 litres.
treatment plant with the capacity to collect, treat and filter 10,000 litres of raw hard water per day, which is reused for gardening and common area cleaning.
e-waste handlers for the disposal of e-waste. Approximately 33.99 Metric Tonne of e-waste generated has been disposed through authorised recyclers in FY2022.
The Group has received green, disposable and re-cycling certificates from the respective e-waste handlers.
* Net of wheeling and transmission losses 3 The Company and its subsidiaries do not consume the minimum power needed to qualify for captive consumption and hence, the power is wheeled to third parties.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 (ii) Eco-friendly offices and practices The offices where our people conduct daily interactions set the benchmark for BFS’s beliefs and work ethic, including its commitment to a better environment. Its initiatives include:
all its business operations. We have been increasingly focussed on the integration of digital applications in our processes, improving efficiencies, lowering costs and enhancing the customer experience while helping protect the environment.
Some of these initiatives include:
and voluntary customer application, over last several communications over email, years.
messaging applications, etc.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Products that preserve and protect the environment 1,400 MW
Another important way of supporting  BFL has during the year identified an the environment is providing financial exclusion list of activities and/or end offerings to our customers that assist use, for which it shall not lend, as renewable power in the preservation and protection of detailed in its Environmental Policy generation facilities the environment:  BFL offers financing for e-Scooters, insured.
simple, doable activities that can help our planet.
sustainably, thus positively driving the future agendas.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Empowering Society Bajaj Group’s philanthropic philosophy was articulated by its founder Shri Jamnalalji Bajaj who had advised that all business activities should look for opportunities for philanthropy in all business activities, without considering the business motive.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 While collaborating with other Our approach Companies in the Bajaj Group, the BFS Most of the projects supported by BFS Since 2014, we have Group has its flagship CSR projects are executed by credible grassroots worked with 130 partner that resonate closest with its social organisations - ranging from tiny local organisations on more than objectives of healthcare, education entities to those with a pan-India 300 projects.
the needs of communities, taking needs of the target beneficiaries. the year, 19 projects underwent a sustainable initiatives in the areas of third-party review on various aspects.
development, community development to conduct social and financial by external agencies to more and response to natural calamities. assessments of the projects. These organisations in the coming years.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Integrated Health Project for Slums of Pune City BFS Group has partnered with the workers and a Mobile Medical Unit.
NGO Partner Ashish Gram Rachna Following is the beneficiary profile from Trust, Pachod for 50 Slums in March 2020 onwards:
facilities provided for empowering and awareness programmes, are as under:
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Education Related to Mental Health in Schools - Sangath We have partnered with Sangath to enhance the school climate and therefore promote education related to mental health, reproductive and sexual health, gender equity, and mitigate bullying and violence, substance use, and other adverse health outcomes. Through this project, we have reached:
financial services industry. Under annual enrolments crossing 10,500 entering 18 states.
BEYOND, the Company conducted and the programme entering 18 states.
also produces a unique talent pool through intense 100-hour training rest of the cost borne of “industry trained graduates” for sessions covering aspects of industry- by the Group.
CPBFI First 2 CPBFI moves CPBFI enters CPBFI enters CPBFI goes New curriculum launched in college to smaller Goa, Madhya Tamil Nadu, online during introduced.
partnership partnerships towns Pradesh and Andhra Covid-19 BEYOND goes with Symbiosis at Wardha Karnataka. Pradesh, pandemic North and East.
International and Nagpur First job fair Telangana. Placement University in at Ratnagiri, 2nd job fair at division set up.
Enrolment 36 166 406 1,022 3,810 4,081 10,530 Male 33%: Female 67% | First-generation graduates 66% | Commerce 63%: Management 29%: Others 8% | Graduates 74% :
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Livelihood and Others Children-focussed projects Women-focussed projects Other livelihood project initiatives More than More than More than 21,000 25,000 18,000 kids women individuals Note: The beneficiaries are estimated for active projects and not necessarily for the year BFS Group undertakes two modes of livelihood activities:  More than 500 Self Help Groups were formed since 2019, i) farm/agro-based and ii) non-farm. Further, it also providing them an opportunity to build an institutional undertakes projects in childcare and protection. Some of the platform and giving them financial support for income notable impacts of these initiatives are: enhancement through various livelihood activities  7,500 farmer families of 1,077 Self Help Groups were trained and applied the skills and knowledge in advancing Kharif Agriculture in their fields “Income Enhancement of Marginalised Families Through Goat Rearing” - Yuva Mitra Yuva Mitra conceptualised a goatery-based livelihood programme for enhancing the income of marginalised women in the Sinnar block of Nashik district. The project provides scientific knowledge on goat rearing through Goat Resource Centre, and establishes value chains in goat, goat milk, and goat byproducts, in addition to the developing a well-equipped veterinary ambulance for prompt veterinary service. Under the project, 26 buck entrepreneurs have been developed for breed improvement. The project has helped in the establishment of 568 JLGs, with the involvement of 2,840 goat-rearing women across 30 villages. Besides, 24,052 goats were vaccinated, and 7,983 goats were treated through veterinary services.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Our response to Covid-19 The Group’s Covid response activities were carried out in two phases. While during the first phase/first wave of the pandemic, the focus was laid on immediate need mitigation in terms of healthcare systems upgradation, during the second phase it was on mass vaccination and mitigating the urgent oxygen crisis that had hit the country.
patients receive the best of care Summary of CSR expenditure by BFS Group:
2% For statutory disclosures on CSR, refer to the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Annual Report.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Customer Centricity At BFS Group, we always strive to listen to our customers and drive continuous transformation to provide them with a frictionless experience. We have ingrained the values of ethics, transparency and accountability into the organisational fabric and concertedly practice the same in our daily operations, including in our dealings with customers.
and make them more aware, thus improving their experience.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Enhancing customer use, and a quick and appropriate responded to more than 56 lakh experience response. Some of the initiatives taken transactions since inception, on in this regard include: real-time basis without human Tech-led seamless customer intervention. BAGIC’s eCare BOT has experiences have been the hallmark  BALIC’s award-winning customer clocked 90,000 queries in the past of our businesses. We believe that servicing platform — ‘i-SERV’ is eight 8 months, helping hospitals, since every business is unique, so is its available on digital platforms, such IMDs and RMs check the status of approach towards enhancing customer as messaging app, customer portal, cashless claims instantaneously, experience. We have centred our mobile app and BOT. It has served 24X7. During FY2022, BFL responded customer service proposition around more than 40,000 requests in the to approximately 87% of the service a set of well-structured systems last two years. It provides support in requests on a near-to-real-time basis without human intervention and practices. These are reflected in 12 vernacular languages, eliminating our diversified product suite, deep the need for customers to visit  A host of online payment avenues geographical footprint and vast branches and auto payment options are distribution network. Together, they being provided across the Group ensure that our financial products and  All the Group companies have businesses services reach millions of Indians. This leveraged machine learning and is discussed in detail in the section – robotic process automation to  While BALIC has provided a one-stop “Reaching financial services to millions enable quick response to customer solution web platform – ‘Go-digital’, of Indians”. requests in an automated manner for the customers to access all the through self-service Chat BOT digital offerings of the Company However, the core objectives that support over digital platforms. BALIC, through the QR code facility, BAGIC tie them together stay the same — through its WhatsApp Customer has made its website available in 7 simplification of processes, ease of real-time servicing platform, has regional languages SMART
PRODUCTS THAT SUIT
EVERY NEED 28 ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022  BFS Group endeavours to maintain  Insurance subsidiaries are active best-in-class customer service, participants in the Regulatory Since 2017, 41.2 which is continuously tracked Sandbox Framework of IRDAI, million policies have been through net promoter scores, claim contributing to new and innovative settlement ratio and grievance products for their customers processed digitally.
farmers, it also empowers them through ‘Farmitra’ app, a unique offering in the industry, by:
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Awards and Recognition During the year, the Group companies received several prestigious awards, some of which are given below:
BAGIC BALIC  ‘General Insurance Company  Won accolades for revolutionary digital platform ‘Smart Assist’, of the Year’ at India Insurance including ET BFSI Excellence Awards 2021 under ‘Best Digital Customer Summit & Awards 2022 Experience Initiative [Insurance]’  ‘Gold Award in the Non-Life Insurance Provider of the
BFL Year’ at the 20th edition of the Outlook Money Awards  Received Gold for ‘Digital Marketing Excellence in Financial Services’ for the Fixed Deposit digital campaign at the DIGIXX 2019 Awards by Adgully Ensuring customer  Customer grievances are also and take suitable action in terms of grievance redressal reviewed with a focus on the warning, penalty and termination identification of root causes, for deviations Timely and appropriate customer corrective action plans and customer grievance redressal is vital to service initiatives. Such review also  BFL has a ‘Reparation Policy’ based ensuring customer satisfaction. It is has oversight of the Board of the on principles of transparency our constant endeavour to reduce respective material subsidiary and fairness in the treatment of customer grievances by learning customers. This policy seeks to from our experiences, through root  BFL has appointed two Internal compensate customers for service cause analysis. Ombudsman as per the RBI deficiencies as per agreed metrics guidelines on Appointment of Some of the initiatives in this regard BFS Group did not receive any Internal Ombudsman by NBFCs are: complaints regarding unfair trade and an Internal Ombudsman for practices, irresponsible advertising Prepaid Payments Instruments,  The BFS Group companies, and anti-competitive behaviour during to strengthen customer grievance through their charters, policies the year. The Group received 6,554 redressal mechanism etc., communicate customer customer complaints in FY2022, rights, company commitments, all of which have been resolved  All material subsidiaries follow
grievance redressal mechanism and appropriately.
strict protocols for their outsourced ombudsman scheme, as applicable.
recovery agents, insurance agents, address their questions on financial etc., to review their performance products etc.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Some of the initiatives taken in this  Awareness initiatives, like webinars,  SMS and email alerts are sent to regard are: use of offline tools (including print customers, notifying them that and radio), comprehensive FAQs on we never ask for OTP, PIN or such  Video series called ‘School of website / apps, communications personal details. If such details Insurance’, with over 80 videos to through email, blogs, etc., are a key are asked, they should report such matter immediately educate on insurance in multiple focus area regional languages  For the 5th year in a row, BAGIC  Insurance subsidiaries actively has been promoting healthy heart  Campaigns like ‘Savdhaan Rahein. participate in and provide advisory initiatives through leadership Safe Rahein’, 'Be Cyber Safe’ support to industry-wide insurance participation in panel discussions and ‘Fraud Awareness Week’ are awareness campaigns – like ‘Sabse undertaken across customer portals Pehle Life Insurance’ and ‘Fayde ki Details on the Group initiatives on and social media channels for Baat’ carried out by Life Insurance cyber security, and data privacy are creating awareness about various Council and General Insurance provided in the ‘Information Security, consumer frauds that take place in Councils, in addition to providing Cyber Security and Fraud Controls section of the Report" the financial services ecosystem monetary contribution  Online initiatives, such as Bajaj  Educational material on information Allianz Marathon, Bagic4Fitness and security, phishing, etc. is provided on other programmes around health our websites awareness and well-being, are conducted to promote health and safety 25 Service Branches, (Dedicated Collections Service Desk in 16) Mobile App Visit our Branch Call Centre IVR, Interactive Email Voice Response Digital Touchpoints Experia, Online GA, Google Customer Portal Assistant SMS, Bi-directional, SMS/Insta Info Missed call RAR, Raise a BLU, Chatbot Request based digital customer interface 31 ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Human Capital Management We aim to provide a workplace that nurtures talent, inculcates responsibility and builds future leaders.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 A Nurturing Work Culture at Bajaj Finserv Group The BFS Group works to promote a workplace culture where innovation, agility and ownership thrive. We seek to create responsible leaders who build long-term profitable businesses while nurturing customer relationships. To cultivate an inclusive work culture that integrates employees’ personal involvement and professional development, we promote a One BFS Leadership DNA. We have accordingly defined a set of leadership mindsets and behaviours that encapsulate the target culture, which will propel the Group towards a reimagined future in alignment with its purpose against the backdrop of a fast- developing nation.
the cultural DNA of the BFS Group. These leadership mindsets and behaviours combine to produce a culture that is highly customer-centric, agile, boldly entrepreneurial, audacious, and innovative.
opportunities for professional development to realise their potential that drives superior performance. Our ‘Do More, Earn More’ philosophy presents an opportunity that rewards people for their performance and maximises performance-linked earning.
Our workplace culture encourages collaboration, accountability, open communication, trust, integrity and responsibility, which builds stronger teams.
brackets and so on, building a collaborative work culture and stronger teams. Our 6,090 women employees represent around 10% of the permanent workforce.
 Further, around 50% of our employees are under the age of 30 and only about 5% are above 45.
 The Group provides employment opportunities to more than 6,400 undergraduates.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Inclusive Workplace for Fair, safe and transparent Stronger Teams workplace We prohibit forced Our people practices acknowledge The BFS Group has mapped out child labour, bribery, and and respect employees’ uniqueness an organisational strategy to corruption.
while enabling employees to feel create a workplace culture built on communication, trust and integrity.
and fair. and inclusive workplace through some roles, levels and specific focus areas.
key practices.
transparency. Management and against employees on any grounds.
Employees are provided with framework acknowledges employee communicate openly and effectively.
environment in exchange for their gender pay parity across the Group.
Charter (Rights and Responsibilities) safety, and evacuation processes grouped under four categories viz.
and Human Rights statement are provided to employees. During i) fair, safe and transparent workplace;
(‘Employee Charter’). The Employee FY2022, 1,636 fire audits and 786 fire ii) pay, rewards and benefits;
Charter explicitly sets out what drills were conducted iii) talent development and retention;
practices. Employee answers are treated with complete confidentiality and no access to anyone from the Group to any individual answers.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Pay, rewards and benefits which is matched by the Company’s contribution of an equal amount.
received financial support of more that has helped to build directly reflect in earning potential.
makes an additional contribution pay, rewards and recognition and pipeline.
when required.
remuneration of employees consists of  Benefits: The BFS Group also fixed pay, short-term performance pay provides employees thoughtful providing anytime learning sources.
performance and work delivery. Group, more than 1,300 employees domains drive specific capability availed benefits of fortnightly salary building and skills.
advance salary in FY2022. Company have been popular with  Insurance: We have insured our employees.
companies has put in place policies Learning Academy (GLA) and the than 63,000 hours of training were that support women colleagues’ Learning and Development teams provided to permanent employees.
preferential transfers. served to enable business growth and awareness campaigns excellence.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 internal job posting mechanism and  All eligible employees of BFS Group auto-promotions. More than 4,300 underwent quarterly / biannual / More than 4,300 employees moved to new roles annual performance assessments through these mechanisms and conducted in a transparent manner employees moved to more than 10,000 employees got and focussed on structured new roles through these auto-promoted during the current development conversations mechanisms and more year. Further, internal job postings on than 10,000 employees got ‘One Finserv Career’ works as a one-  To support the digital transformation stop destination to job opportunities auto-promoted during the agenda of BFL, the need for tech across the BFS Group companies current year.
– grooms fresh Chartered Accountants for future roles.
of problems and then come up with breakthrough ideas for the CEO.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Ethics, compliance and money laundering and facilitation payments, fraud prevention, insider grievance redressal Employees may trading, prevention of sexual Our corporate culture, based on harassment, etc. anonymously raise their trust and integrity, is reflected in concerns, in confidence, our high level of compliance with Support for Employees without fear of reprisal or regulations and employees’ ethics. During Pandemic retribution.
insurance — to reduce the financial Our commitment to our people has led took various steps to prevent disease burden of treatment and isolation.
shifts to ensure lesser number of the CoEPC and Employees’ Charter, family assistance for 48 months;
besides Disciplinary Action Committee child education up to the age of 21 social distancing.
reviews, whistleblower and vigil years; and employment opportunity mechanism policies. The Disciplinary for their spouse, if found suitable.
without prejudice, as it enjoys Board employee families were assisted companies. These included:
Covid-19, more than 24,000 free report their concerns.
the Group received any complaint members of employees.
 All Group companies conducted employees and their family members like Zumba, yoga etc.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Awards and Recognition The successful milestones of the Company and its subsidiaries found appreciation in various prestigious awards during the year. Some of those are listed below:
way to promote ways of sustainable business.
Group’s ESG practices and initiatives.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Information Security, Cyber Security and Fraud Controls Information has emerged as a valuable asset in this technological age, necessitating robust control over information security, cyber security and fraud. Our Information Technology (IT) framework provides for controls to overcome the various challenges and threats that can disrupt our business operations and endanger customer data.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 We overcome these threats and means, with explicit consent of the challenges through the IT framework, data subject where required The material which inter-alia covers governance, policy, operations, security, audit and  Clear terms involving the collection, subsidiaries of the Business Continuity Plan (BCP). use, sharing and retention of user Company are compliant data, including data transferred to with ISO 27001:2013 The IT framework of each of the Group third parties Information security companies is designed to establish, implement, monitor and constantly  Commitment to notify data subjects management system and improve its information security in a timely manner in case of policy ISO 22301:2012 Business posture. changes or data breaches Continuity Management.
 The material subsidiaries of the The Group companies clearly disclose management across the material Company are compliant with ISO the mechanisms for data subjects subsidiaries.
realisation of these objectives. Some  Data uploaded on dialler is stored in (DLP) solutions, such as:
the respective company’s website, at least once a year.
 Commitment to obtain user data in place. Our privacy policies apply to involving PII of customers across any through lawful and transparent our entire operations, including the of the Group companies.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Audits and Assessments Governance structure We undertake regular audits and In case of material subsidiaries, Led by a commitment assessments of the security threats the IT security-related projects to protecting the privacy of through a comprehensive strategy and operations are reviewed by a personal data, we have comprising: committee, under the oversight of put well-structured privacy the respective company’s Board.
 Regular internal security audits, The committees meet at least on a policies in place.
 “Fraud Awareness Week” is products and practices affecting and operations for digital initiatives.
external experts, of systems, products partners, etc.
'Be Cyber Safe' Campaign Deployed a 360-degree customer awareness campaign for RBI’s cyber security awareness drive throughout October 2021.
Published Garnered 09 90+ 186 MN+ 42 K+
Themes Blogs Impressions Engagements Covered Published Garnered Received 41 ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Fraud Awareness Campaigns Group companies conduct various campaigns to create awareness amongst its employees, customers and value chain partners. Insurance Subsidiaries celebrated International Fraud Awareness Week from 14th to 20th November, 2021 with the intention of creating an anti-fraud awareness among our distributors and customers alike. Key highlights of some of the campaigns have been presented below:
Tapped Covered Garnered Received offers, job and insurance frauds.
The Group’s Fraud prevention 130+ 10,000 167 500 MN+
awareness campaign was recognised with Gold at Adgully’s Blogs Content Video Views Media Coverage Digixx 2022- BFSI services sector. Published Published Achieved Garnered Click images to watch the video Business Continuity an emergency. Annual BCP drills and oversight through Audit Committee, Management reviews are conducted to ensure Risk Committee and Whistle Blower that the BCP is effective given the Committee.
All Group companies have in place current nature of business processes, a business continuity strategy infrastructure, personnel, etc.
and frameworks are also reviewed The BCP includes Disaster Recovery annually. Fraud risks are monitored customers alike.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Stakeholder Engagement BFS’s key stakeholders include shareholders and investors, customers, government and regulators, value chain partners, employees and society as a whole. Through periodic interactions, the BFS Group actively addresses their expectations and concerns.

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 BFS Group is dedicated to upholding 31 March 2022 which also has been feedback and regulatory requirements and protecting stakeholders’ interests appropriately resolved subsequently. relating to code of conduct, anti- and ensuring compliance with all money laundering, fraud prevention, applicable laws pertaining to human Value-Chain Partners health and safety, prevention of rights. In FY2022, none of the sexual harassment, whistle blower BFS Group strives to influence companies in BFS Group received any mechanism, other functional its partners in the value chain complaint relating to a violation of trainings, etc.
to participate in responsible and human rights.
agents have completed the training the importance of these engagements. conduct agent meets.
program.
and interacted live with the senior management.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 etc. to review their performance to stay on track and provide timely and with the BFS Group, wherein the IRF and take suitable action in terms of accurate information, as required. is updated on the practises at the warning, penalty and termination for BFS Group pertaining to compliances, deviations. This is achieved through Each of the Group companies risk management, capital adequacy, contracting, engagement, and participates in the interactive grievance management, business following Board-approved policies engagement with government development, etc. From the respective and codes: authorities and regulators, be regulators’ side, their expectations on it by offering suggestions and any identified issues and challenges,  Insurance subsidiaries – recommendations or feedback on if any, in the conduct of respective Appointments and operations draft policies. We also provide our companies are discussed, including are conducted according to the discerning views on setting up of their expectations from the overall BFS guidelines provided under the Policy new industry standards or regulatory Group of companies.
 BFL and its subsidiaries have objectively. All interactions with resolutions within the scope of these adopted a Board-approved Code of government bodies and regulators like forums.
The BFS Group companies continually comprising representatives from the and the President of CII, from monitor their legal and regulatory IRDAI, SEBI, RBI, NHB and PFRDA. May 2022.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Statutory Reporting A. BRSR Independent Verification Statement B. Statutory Disclosures - BRSR C. GHG Independent verification statement

Introduction DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of Bajaj Finserv Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘Bajaj Finserv’, Corporate Identification Number: L65923PN2007PLC130075 to undertake an independent assurance of Bajaj Finserv’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (‘BRSR’) disclosures (the ‘Report’) which shall form part of the Company’s Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report FY 2022 in its digital/online format. The disclosures in this Report have been prepared based on the requirements of SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD-2/P/CIR/2021/562 dated May 10, 2021, prescribing format of the BRSR and the guidance notes and the nine principles of the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct, 2019 (‘NGRBC’) of the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India. The intended user of this assurance statement is the Management of Bajaj Finserv (‘the Management’) and its stakeholders. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out during March 2022 – June 2022 covering the Company’s non-financial/sustainability performance during 1st April 2021 - 31st March 2022. We performed a limited level of assurance based on our assurance methodology, VeriSustainTM1.
the Management of Bajaj Finserv; however, this statement represents our independent opinion and is intended to inform the outcome of the assurance to the stakeholders of Bajaj Finserv.
by the Company to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith and are free from material misstatements.
Bajaj Finserv in India covering the financial and insurance services-related operations of Bajaj Finserv Limited, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, as brought out in Section A: General Disclosures of the BRSR.
estimation/measurement errors and omissions. We did not engage with any external stakeholders as part of this assurance engagement.
by its statutory auditors which is subject to a separate audit process. We were not involved in the review of financial information within the Report.
assurance efforts on the issues of high material relevance to Bajaj Finserv’s business and its key stakeholders. We carried out the following activities:
• Reviewed the approach to stakeholder engagement and materiality determination process and its outcomes as brought out in the Report.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

and claims disclosed in the Report. We were free to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall responsibility to deliver Bajaj Finserv’s overall sustainability objectives.
aggregating site-level sustainability information, as well as overall aggregation and consolidation of data from sites by the sustainability team at the Corporate Office at Pune in Maharashtra.
• Reviewed the process of reporting on BRSR requirements including Section A: General Disclosures, Section B: Management and Process Disclosures, and Section C: Principle-wise Performance Disclosures.
NGRBC Principles and, for a sample, checked the processes of data consolidation to assess the Reliability and Accuracy of performance disclosures reported based on BRSR requirements.
• Verification of the data consolidation of reported performance disclosures in context to the Principle of Completeness as per VeriSustain for a limited level of verification.
including the General Disclosures, Management and Process Disclosures, and Principle-wise Performance Disclosures.
Without affecting our assurance opinion, we provide the following observations against the principles of VeriSustain:
Materiality The process of determining the issues that is most relevant to an organization and its stakeholders.
The Report brings out the broad range of issues which the Company has identified as being material to its business which are mapped as risks and opportunities, along with the rationale for considering the issue as being material.
The Company may strengthen its process of materiality identification and prioritisation of material topics through engagement and feedback with internal and external stakeholders.
Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Principle of Materiality.
The participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to Sustainability.
modes of engagement with these stakeholder groups as well as the key topics and concerns which have come out from these engagement channels are brought out within the Report.
Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Principle of Stakeholder Inclusiveness.
Responsiveness The extent to which an organization responds to stakeholder issues.
descriptions of structures, policies and processes implemented by Bajaj Finserv towards adopting and reviewing the NGRBC Principles, as well as performance data, and processes for governance.
Nothing has come to our attention to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Principle of Responsiveness.
The accuracy and comparability of information presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data management systems.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors. These data inaccuracies have been communicated for correction and the related disclosures were reviewed for correctness.
Nothing has come to our attention to believe that the Report does not meet the principle of Reliability.
How much of all the information that has been identified as material to the organisation and its stakeholders is reported?
strengthen its processes towards capturing and reporting information and data related to Essential and certain Leadership Indicators of Principle-wise Performance Disclosures in future reporting periods.
Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the Principle of Completeness with respect to scope, boundary and time.
The extent to which a report provides a balanced account of an organization’s performance, delivered in a neutral tone.
The Report brings out Bajaj Finserv’s sustainability performance during the reporting period in a neutral tone in terms of content along with descriptions of key risks and opportunies during the reporting period.
Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report does not meet the requirements related to the Principle of Neutrality.
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
did not provide any services to Bajaj Finserv and its subsidiaries and joint ventures in the scope of assurance during FY 2021-22 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work.
DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. India.
24th June 2022, Mumbai, India.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Statutory Disclosures Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report Section A: General Disclosures I. Details of the listed entity 1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity L65923PN2007PLC130075 2. Name of the Listed Entity Bajaj Finserv Limited (Referred to as ‘the Company’/‘BFS’) 3. Year of incorporation 2007 4. Registered office address Bajaj Auto Limited Complex, Mumbai-Pune Road, Pune - 411035 5. Corporate address 6th Floor, Bajaj Finserv Corporate Office, Off Pune-Ahmednagar Road, Viman Nagar, Pune - 411014 6. E-mail uma.shende@bajajfinserv.in 7. Telephone 020 7157 6064 8. Website https://www.bajajfinserv.in/corporate-bajaj-finserv 9. Financial year for which reporting is being done 2021 – 2022 10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed BSE Limited and National Stock Exchange of India Limited 11. Paid-up Capital ₹ 79.57 crore 12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) Name of the person Ms. Uma Shende of the person who may be contacted in case of any Telephone Number 020 7157 6064 queries on the BRSR Report Email ID uma.shende@bajajfinserv.in 13. Reporting boundary Consolidated basis Collectively referred to as ‘the Group’/‘the BFS Group’ (For more details on entities considered for consolidation refer #21 below) II. Products/services
14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
3. Life Insurance 65110 25%
15. Products/Services sold by the Group (accounting for 90% of the Group’s Turnover):
planning and annuities. Through these businesses it offers various attractive solutions, refer #14 for product/service wise breakup of turnover.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 III. Operations
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
International Not applicable Not applicable
* BFS Group provides financial services through its subsidiary companies and does not undertake any manufacturing activity.
# includes branches and corporate offices as at 31 March 2022.
17. Markets served by the entity:
International (No. of Countries) NIL b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
Nil c. A brief on types of customers:
BFS Group provides financial products and services to meet life cycle needs of customers.
• B FS participates in lending business through its 52.49% subsidiary — Bajaj Finance Limited (BFL). BFL also participates in savings business by offering fixed deposits, mutual funds and the like to its customers.
• A s of 31 March 2022, BFL’s customer franchise stood at 57.6 million, with a strong focus on mass affluent and above clients and has strong geographic presence across 3,504 locations and 1,33,200+ distribution points.
Bajaj Financial Securities Limited, which is registered with the SEBI as a stockbroker and depository participant providing its clients a full suite of investment products and services in an all-in-one digital platform.
and retirement plans (together ‘Insurance subsidiaries’). Both are unlisted joint ventures with Allianz SE, one of the world’s leading composite insurers.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Non-Life insurance • BAGIC, our non-life insurance subsidiary, is focussed on retail segments (mass, mass affluent and HNI) and commercial segments (SME and MSMEs), while maintaining strong position in large corporates and government business.
• It uses a strong multi-channel distribution network encompassing multiline agents, bancassurance, broking, direct, and ecommerce network serving all segments of customers.
combined with an array of innovative products and features, has enabled it to create a strong retail customer franchise.
• Its strong focus on service and customer obsession has helped BALIC witness a solid growth in their number of customers, especially in the mass affluent and above segments.
range of financial products including loans, insurance, mutual funds, investments, lifestyle products, payments and e-commerce.
services on a digital platform to bring quality healthcare closer to consumers’ reach through products, networks and technology.
subsidiary, has obtained an in-principle approval from SEBI to set up the asset management company and is in the process of completing the requirements for the final licence for mutual fund.
• B ajaj Finserv Ventures Limited is another 100% subsidiary of BFS, which is an investment platform for (i) early to mid-stage venture capital investments and (ii) alternate class of assets.
IV. Employees
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year:
a. Employees (including differently abled):
3. Total employees 75,852 63,889 84% 11,963 16% (D + E)
* Refers to fixed term employees The Company does not have any ‘worker’.
b. Differently abled Employees:
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of Women Total No. and percentage of Females (A)
No. (B) % (B/A) Board of Directors (BoD/Board) 8 1 13% Key Management Personnel * 3 1 33% * Key Managerial Personnel are as defined under section 203(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 (KMP) The above information pertains only to the Company as at 31 March 2022.
20. Turnover rate for permanent employees FY2022 FY2021 FY2020
Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Permanent Employees 31% 44% 33% 23% 30% 23% 32% 42% 33% V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures) 21. (a) Names of holding/subsidiary/associate companies/joint ventures S. Name of the holding/subsidiary/ Indicate whether holding/ % of shares held by No. associate companies/joint ventures (A) subsidiary/associate/ Bajaj Finserv Limited joint venture as at 31 March 2022 1 Bajaj Finserv Limited Holding — 2 Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited Subsidiary 74% 3 Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited Subsidiary 74% 4 Bajaj Finance Limited Subsidiary 52.49% 5 Bajaj Finserv Direct Limited * Subsidiary 80.10% 6 Bajaj Finserv Health Limited Subsidiary 100% 7 Bajaj Housing Finance Limited Subsidiary - (100% Subsidiary of BFL) 8 Bajaj Financial Securities Limited Subsidiary - (100% Subsidiary of BFL) 9 Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund Trustee Limited Subsidiary 100% 10 Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Limited Subsidiary 100% 11 Bajaj Finserv Ventures Limited Subsidiary 100% 12 Bajaj Allianz Financial Distributor Limited (BAFDL) Joint Venture 50% 13 Bajaj Allianz Staffing Solutions Limited Joint Venture - (100% subsidiary of BAFDL) *Balance 19.90% shares are held by BFL Keeping in mind that the nature and conduct of the businesses across the Group companies are distinct, to the extent relevant, the Company through its Responsible and Sustainable Business Conduct Policy (i) engages with and enjoins upon its Group companies to participate in the responsible and sustainable business conduct and (ii) requires its material subsidiaries1 to embody a similar policy. Accordingly, the business responsibility initiatives of the subsidiaries and joint ventures could either be similar or distinct depending on the business responsibility initiative under consideration and nature of their respective businesses.
1BFL, BAGIC, BALIC and BHFL are the material subsidiaries of BFS.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 VI. CSR Details
22.
VII. Transparency and Disclosure Compliances
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the NGRBC:
in addition to the policies available on respective company’s website, regarding conduct with stakeholders, including grievance mechanisms.
matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along with its financial implications, as per the following format:
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 S. Material Indicate Rationale for identifying In case of risk, approach to Financial No. identified whether the risk/opportunity adapt or mitigate implications - issue risk or positive or negative opportunity 1 Climate Risk and Risks Underwriting policies and Negative change Opportunity Climate change vulnerability - procedures are in place to Unpredictable adverse vulnerability Climate change can result in assess and manage the risks. events can challenge claim frequency/severity (non- Periodic reviews of underwriting our assumptions and life insurance) and mortality (life processes are conducted, and impact profitability.
insurance) being higher than their effectiveness is assessed.
climate change has accelerated it to harness these the adoption of environment opportunities.
opportunity to finance and insure these class of assets.
customers or even reputational transparency, fair practices businesses of the loss. and accountability are deeply Group.
the go” customer journey through its digital platforms.
and semi-urban/rural parts of technology solutions to provide opportunity for the India. a seamless customer journey Group.
through its digital platforms and customised product offering.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Section B: Management And Process Disclosures Structures, policies and processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles (P1 – P9) and Core Elements.
NGRBCs. (Yes/No) b. Has the policy been approved by the Board?
c. Web-Link of the Policies, if available ‘Responsible and Sustainable Business Conduct Policy’ covering the above-mentioned principles has been approved by the Board.
2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into Yes. The Company has translated the policies and imbibed the procedures. (Yes/No) same into procedures and practices of the Company, as applicable.
chain partners? (Yes/No) participate in the responsible and sustainable business conduct depending upon their means and resources.
certifications/labels/standards (e.g. Forest as per the regulatory requirements and through appropriate Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest consultation with relevant stakeholders.
OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
operations
6. Performance of the entity against the specific As committed in FY2021:
which are included in this Report and
• BFL has opened 50 financial inclusion branches during the year.
business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements.
implementation and oversight of the Business Designation Chairman and Managing Director Responsibility policy (ies).
DIN DIN 00014615
9. Does the entity have a specified Committee Yes of the Board/Director responsible for decision • The Company and all its material subsidiaries have their making on sustainability related issues?
own policies, as approved by their respective Boards, the (Yes/No). If yes, provide details.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P 1 P 2 P 3 P 4 P 5 P 6 P 7 P 8 P 9
• Such executive committees meet periodically to assess the performance against their business responsibility objectives.
convened specifically to discuss and the sustainable and responsive business conduct initiatives across the BFS Group.
Management Committee of the Board
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
policies is also reviewed and necessary changes to policies and procedures are implemented.
Compliance with statutory requirements of The Company is in compliance with the extant regulations as relevance to the principles, and, rectification of applicable.
any non-compliances
11. Has the entity carried out independent Evaluation is a continuous process and is done internally.
policies by an external agency? (Yes/No). If yes, provide name of the agency.
Note:
Other than the policies placed on the Company’s website (bajajfinserv.in/policies-and-codes), certain policies of the Company are internal documents and are not accessible to public.
respective websites (bajajfinserv.in/corporate-bajaj-finance, bajajallianz.com/general-insurance.html, bajajallianzlife.com, bajajhousingfinance.in).
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 Section C: Principle Wise Performance Disclosure P2 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable P3
Essential Indicators P4
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programmes on any of the Principles during the financial year:
P5 P6
Segment Total number of training and Topics/principles covered under %age of persons awareness programmes held the training and its impact in respective P7
category covered by awareness P8
programmes P9 BoD Apart from BFS and its listed subsidiaries, which carry out familiarisation 100% programmes for its Directors, as required under the SEBI Listing Regulations, even unlisted material subsidiaries on an ongoing basis keep their respective KMP 100%
Directors and KMPs abreast on matters relating to the industry, business models, risk metrices, mitigation and management, governing regulations, ESG, information technology including cyber security, their roles, rights and responsibilities and major developments and updates on the Company, etc.
programmes are carried out through emails, posters/banners (physical and digital) and other modes of internal communication.
Conduct, Ethics, Cyber security, Data Privacy, ESG, Fraud Prevention, Health and safety, Insider Trading, Prevention of sexual harassment, etc.
During the year, more than 1.1 million hours of trainings were completed and logged by employees on above mentioned topics.
( Note: The entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website):
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1
Non-Monetary P2 NGRBC Name of the Brief of the Case Has an appeal been Principle regulatory/ preferred? (Yes/No) P3
enforcement agencies/judicial P4
institutions P5 Imprisonment NIL
P6 Punishment P7
3. O f the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non-monetary action has been appealed.
P8 Not Applicable
P9
4. D oes the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web-link to the policy.
Yes.
B FS Group has zero tolerance towards unethical business practices and prohibits bribery in any form in all of its business dealings through various policies, codes and charters.
anti-bribery. All employees of BFS Group companies must adhere to the commitment of integrity and other responsible business conduct principles laid down in CoEPC.
Some of these policies, codes and charters are available on Company’s website (bajajfinserv.in/policies-and-codes).
Further material subsidiaries also have some of their policies, codes and charters available on their respective websites.
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/corruption:
FY2022 FY2021 Directors Nil Nil KMPs Nil Nil Employees Nil Nil
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY2022 FY2021 Number Remarks Number Remarks Number of complaints received in relation to Nil Nil Nil Nil issues of Conflict of Interest of the Directors Number of complaints received in relation to Nil Nil Nil Nil issues of Conflict of Interest of the KMPs 7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines/penalties/action taken by regulators/
law enforcement agencies/judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
No corrective actions pertaining to above mentioned parameters was necessitated by the Group during the year under review.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 Leadership Indicators P2 1. Awareness programmes conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
B FS Group strives to influence its value chain partners to participate in the responsible and sustainable business P3
conduct depending upon their means and resources. Group companies carry out awareness/training programmes for its value chain partners (especially agents and other intermediaries), depending on the business needs, stakeholder P4
feedback and regulatory requirements covering various topics. For example, our insurance subsidiaries provide specialised training to their agents. These training sessions cover various topics such as Code of Conduct, ethics, P5
professional conduct, anti-money laundering, functional and skill upgradation trainings that were knowledge-based.
They also covered the ‘Did you Know’ series about products, processes, FAQs, new product launches, know your P6
compliances, existing products, ready-reckoners, sample illustrations, selling stories and video pitches. Similarly, on a suo moto basis, BFL has trained about 17,800 Debt Recovery Agents.
P7
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board?
P8 (Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
P9 Yes.
B FS and its subsidiaries have zero tolerance towards unethical business practices and ensures adherence to relevant principles including in relation to conflict of interest.
the Chairman & Managing Director, through the Annual Report. CoC hyperlinked herewith, is available on the Company’s website.
I n addition to the above, the BFS Group CoEPC covers potential areas where conflict of interest may be encountered.
It also provides specific guidelines on avoiding and dealing with possible conflicts of interest and the requirement to disclose potential conflicts of interest by employees.
F urther, BFS and its material subsidiaries have policies on related party transactions, which require all the transactions to be at arm’s-length price.
1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Being a financial services group, the relevance of above is largely related to the Group’s capex in information technology.
software). Greater adoption of digital platforms not only brings in increased efficiencies of operations but also ensures substantially through reduced consumption of paper.
Further, as part of its initiative to reduce the carbon footprint of its operations, ` 1.14 crore have been invested for rooftop solar plant installations at certain offices during the year.
the needs of the people. However, the Group nurtures a culture of conservation of resources and encourages innovations that aid in reducing the dependence on natural resources.
b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
Refer a above.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for P1 (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste.
P2 P2 Given the nature of the business, BFS Group companies provides financial services to its customers and does not
manufacture any products, hence we do not currently maintain records for hazardous and other waste generation.
P3 P2 However, recycled tissue papers are used at some of the corporate offices. BFS Group has systems in place to manage e-waste and engages with certified e-waste handlers for disposal of e-waste. Approximately, 33.99 metric tonnes of
P4 P4 e-waste generated has been disposed through authorised recyclers in FY2022. The Group has received green, disposable P5 and re-cycling certificates from the respective e-waste handlers. P5 P6 4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes/No). If yes, whether the waste P6 collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If P7 not, provide steps taken to address the same. P7
Given the nature of our business, the above is not applicable.
P8 P8 Leadership Indicators
P9 P9
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)?
BFS Group provides varied financial products and services to its customers. However, lending and insurance (life and non-life) are the largest businesses for the Group. The broad lifecycle of these businesses has been summarised below:
platforms (website/mobile apps), agents/intermediaries etc. Depending on the type of product, information/applications are obtained from the customer either physically or electronically.
be completely automated or may require manual intervention. Upon satisfaction with the above, including adherence to internal risk parameters, the product is issued to the customer (loan in case of lending and policy in case of insurance).
experience and have a number of digital tools where the customer can self-service and in the alternate, they can also reach out at our offices/branches, write to/call us etc.
products/services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective/Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same along with action taken to mitigate the same.
None other than those identified in S. No. 24 of Section A above.
3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Given the nature of the business, BFS Group companies provides financial services to its customers and does not manufacture any products, hence we do not currently maintain records for recycled/reused material consumed.
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely disposed.
Not Applicable
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
BFS Group provides financial services and thus the above is not applicable.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should respect and promote the well-being of all employees, including those in their value chains P2
Essential Indicators P3
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees:
P4 P5 Category Total % of employees covered by (A) Health insurance Accident Maternity Paternity Day Care facilities#
P6 insurance benefits benefits Number % Number % Number % Number % Number %
P7 (B) (B/A) (C) (C/A) (D) (D/A) (E) (E/A) (F) (F/A)
P8 Permanent employees Male 53,871 53,871 100% 53,871 100% NA NA 53,871 100% 53,871 100% P9 Female 6,090 6,090 100% 6,090 100% 6,090 100% NA NA 6,090 100% Total 59,961 59,961 100% 59,961 100% 6,090 10% 53,871 90% 59,961 100% Other than Permanent employees Male 10,018 1,964 20% 2,000 20% Female 5,873 476 8% 496 8% NA* Total 15,891 2,440 15% 2,496 16% # wherever applicable under regulations, day care facilities are provided *Being fixed term employees
2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current and Previous Financial Year.
N ote: The above represents benefits provided to all the employees who are eligible/have opted for the said retirement benefits.
A re the premises/offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
any person with disability in any matter related to employment as per the Right of Person with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Transgender persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019.
C orporate offices of the Group companies have ramps for easy movement and wheelchair accessible restrooms for specially abled people.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 4. Does the entity have an equal opportunity policy as per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If so, provide a web-link to the policy.
P2 The Company through its Employee Charter and Human Rights Statement prohibits discrimination against any person P3 with disability in any matter related to employment as per the Right of Person with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Transgender
persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019.
P4 As enshrined in the ‘Responsible and Sustainable Business Conduct Policy’, the Company provides remuneration and P5 equal opportunities at the time of recruitment as well as during employment irrespective of age, sex, colour, caste, disability, marital status, ethnic origin, race, religion, sexual orientation, disease (viz. HIV/Aids) or any other status of
P6 individuals, thereby presenting an opportunity to excel and grow best suited to the individual’s suitability and ability to
perform the related work.
P7 The above are available on our website bajajfinserv.in/policies-and-codes.
P8
5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave.
P9 Permanent employees Gender Return to work rate Retention rate Male 100% 87% Female 98% 94% Total 99% 88% 6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances for the following categories of employees? If yes, give
details of the mechanism in brief.
compliance etc. BFS Group enables employees to work without fear of prejudice, gender discrimination and harassment. It has zero tolerance towards any non-compliance of these principles.
through the explicit means provided by CoEPC, Whistle Blower Policy, Prevention of Sexual Harassment Policy and other policies/charters.
7. Membership of employees in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity:
BFS Group employees are currently not part of any employee association.
8. Details of training given to employees:
Total No. % Total (C) No. (D) % (D/C) Total (E) No. (F) % (F/E) (A=C+E) (B=D+F) (B/A)
Male (G) 63,889 49,118 77% 53,871 41,588 77% 10,018 7,530 75% Female (H) 11,963 9,697 81% 6,090 4,984 82% 5,873 4,713 80% Total Employees (G+H) 75,852 58,815 78% 59,961 46,572 78% 15,891 12,243 77% 63 ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 For Health and Safety:
BFS Group trains its employees on safety protocols by conducting periodic trainings on fire safety and evacuation drills.
P2 During the year, 1,636 fire audits and 786 drills were conducted.
P3 Periodical awareness programmes are carried out through emails, posters/banners (physical and digital) and other modes of internal communication. The Group companies also initiated exhaustive employee engagement campaigns like
P4 “#Stay Healthy #Stay Safe” to imbibe and encourage employees to adopt healthy and safety measures - eating healthy, P5 staying hydrated, using stairs, maintaining right posture, etc. Various campaigns and collaterals were released to spread
awareness among the employees on the pandemic precautions and safety compliances.
P6
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees:
P7 Performance appraisal was conducted during the year for all the eligible employees as per the policies.
P8
10. Health and safety management system:
P9 a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/No).
If yes, the coverage such system?
response teams, safety signage displays related to Do's and Don'ts/Attention marks across premises, identification of fire marshals, firefighting systems, etc.
B FS Group trains its employees on safety protocols by conducting periodic trainings on fire safety and evacuation drills. During the year, across 1,636 locations fire audits and 786 drills were conducted.
G roup Companies also run internal awareness campaigns on health and safety related aspects such as always wear a helmet, eat healthy, drink enough water, stay on the move, choose to use the stairs, etc.
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity?
not directly control or manage but over which it can be expected to have an influence through its Environment, Health and Safety Manual.
as those associated with the operation of utilities, indoor air quality, lift/elevator safety, fire safety procedures, personnel protective equipment, signages, etc.
to mitigate the associated risks. During the year, no such instances have been noted which necessitated further action.
T he applicable processes have been briefly described in ‘a’ above.
risks. (Y/N) Not Applicable. The Company does not have any ‘worker’.
d. Do the employees of the entity have access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services? (Yes/No) Yes.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 11. Details of safety-related incidents, in the following format:
P2 Safety Incident/Number Category FY2022 FY2021 P3 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) (per one million-person hours worked) NIL NIL Total recordable work-related injuries NIL NIL P4 Employees No. of fatalities NIL NIL
P5 High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities) NIL NIL
P6
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy workplace.
P7 Refer 10 (a) above.
P8
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees:
P9 FY2022 FY2021
Filed during Pending resolution Remarks Filed during Pending resolution Remarks the year at the end of year the year at the end of year Working Nil Nil NA Nil Nil NA Conditions Health & Safety Nil Nil NA Nil Nil NA
14. Assessments for the year:
periodically through surveys, audits, etc. for various aspects of health and safety measures and related working conditions.
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions.
No corrective actions pertaining to above mentioned parameters was necessitated by the Group during the year under review.
Leadership Indicators
1. Does the entity extend any life insurance or any compensatory package in the event of death of Employees (Yes/No)?
All Group companies extend various support and compensatory package in the event of death of permanent employees.
reimbursement, monetary assistance for 48 months to family members, facilitating child education up to the age of 21 years, employment opportunity for spouse where suitable, etc.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value chain partners.
P2 BFS Group strives to influence its partners in the value chain to participate in the responsible and sustainable business P3 conduct depending upon their means and resources. Having said that, there are multiple measures to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by them which include contractual commitments, obtaining P4 evidences of payment, review/audit of value chain partners, seeking confirmations of compliance, etc., which depend on the nature of product/services rendered. For example, material subsidiaries on an annual basis, select a sample of value P5 chain partners to review their processes and controls, which includes their compliance for deduction and payment of
statutory dues.
P6
3. Provide the number of employees having suffered high consequence work-related injury/ill-health/fatalities (as reported P7
in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment:
P8 Not Applicable
P9
4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programmes to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/No) The BFS Group invests significant time and resources in the training and development of its employees, help them stay ahead of latest trends and technology. With such trainings, most employees are skilled and tend to be employable upon retirement/termination.
5. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Working conditions BFS Group expects all its value chain partners to follow extant regulations, Health and safety practices including health and safety practices and working conditions.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners.
In absence of any significant risks/concerns, no need for corrective action plan has been necessitated.
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity.
the future are identified as key stakeholder by the Group Companies. Based on this, the key stakeholders are shareholders and investors, customers, government and regulators, value chain partners, employees and the society as a whole.
stakeholders. In line with its policies, practices and processes, the Group engages with its stakeholders and strives to resolve differences with them in a just, fair, equitable and consistent manner, and if warranted takes corrective measures.
The Group also engages with relevant stakeholders for enhancing the sustainable and responsible business practices.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group.
P2 Stakeholder Whether identified Channels of communication Frequency of Purpose and scope of engagement P3 Group as Vulnerable engagement including key topics and concerns and Marginalised raised during such engagement P4 Group (Yes/No) P5 Shareholder No Multiple channels – physical and Frequent and To inform about the performance, and Investor digital including quarterly investor need-based major developments and other P6 presentations, press releases and relevant updates regarding the communications through stock Company and Group P7 exchanges, participation in investor
conferences, etc.
P8 Customer No Multiple channels – physical and Frequent and Servicing throughout the lifecycle of P9 digital need-based the customer and address queries/ grievances that the customer may have Government No Multiple channels – physical and Need-based To provide timely recommendations/ and digital feedback on draft policies, Regulators representations before regulators and associations for advancement and improvement of financial services industry in India Value Chain No Multiple channels – physical and Frequent and To enhance the access and Partner digital including in-person meetings, need-based understanding of relevant financial emails, performance discussions, products and services of the Group trainings, company policy/process communication, periodical meets/
conferences, etc.
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
communication and access to relevant information about its decisions that impact relevant stakeholders, keeping in mind the need to protect confidential competitive plans and information.
the engagement. The BoD are updated on various developments arising out of such engagement and they provide their guidance/inputs on such matters.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 2. Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the identification and management of environmental, and social topics (Yes/No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were P2 incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Continuous engagement with stakeholders helps in aligning expectations, thereby enabling the Group to better serve its P3
stakeholders.
P5 enhanced its reporting on business responsibility and has also started certain new initiatives. The Group believes that it is still learning the evolving aspects of ESG and lays significant importance to such interactions.
P6 For example, during the year, BFL has adopted an Environmental Policy thereby committing not to extend fund through its
P7 commercial lending business for specified lines of businesses and specific activities.
P8 3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/marginalised stakeholder groups.
P9 BFS Group companies through their CSR policies have taken up various initiatives and activities for the benefit of different segments of the society, with focus on the marginalised, poor, needy, deprived, under-privileged and differently abled
persons.
Essential Indicators
1. Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity:
integrity and ensure the principles laid down in CoEPC which amongst other things includes principles of mutual respect, privacy, equal opportunities and non-discrimination, health, safety and environment and sexual harassment.
also lays down the principles of equal opportunity and non-discrimination, anti-corruption and bribery, prohibition of forced and child labour, transparency, safe healthful and harassment-free workplace, amongst others.
BFS Group companies use various mediums to create awareness on ESG initiatives (including human rights) for its employees through use of Social media as well as internal communication channels - intranet, bulletins, etc.
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees in the following format:
No. % No. % No. % No. % (B) (B/A) (C) (C/A) (E) (E/D) (F) (F/D)
Permanent Employees Male 53,871 415 1% 53,456 99% 44,342 142 0% 44,200 100% Female 6,090 69 1% 6,021 99% 4,590 69 2% 4,521 98% Other than Permanent Employees Male 10,018 1,992 20% 8,026 80% 4,765 2,009 42% 2,756 58% Female 5,873 492 8% 5,381 92% 2,204 490 22% 1,714 78% 68 ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format:
P2 Male Female P3 Number Median remuneration Number Median remuneration (` in crore) (` in crore)
P4 BoD – Non-Executive Directors 6 0.22 1 0.27 BoD – Executive Directors 1 21.69 NA NA
P5 KMP (excluding BoD) 1 10.94 2 0.68 P6 Employees other than BoD and KMP 72,376 0.05 8,572 0.05
P7
4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business? (Yes/No) P8
Yes.
P9
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues.
has a well-defined Grievance redressal mechanism for its employees. A formal grievance mechanism is available to all employees, to report or raise their concerns confidentially and anonymously, without fear of any retaliation.
The Group regards respect for human rights as one of its fundamental and core values and strives to support, protect and promote human rights to ensure that fair and ethical business and employment practices are followed.
violence or physical, sexual, psychological or verbal abuse. As a matter of policy, BFS Group does not hire any employee or engage with any agent or vendor against their free will.
Across the Group, Designated Ethics Officer at each of the companies deals with the issues of the respective Company.
BFS Group Employees must promptly report any violation of this Code to their Manager and to the Ethics Officer.
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by Employees:
FY2022 FY2021 Filed during Pending Remarks Filed during Pending Remarks the year resolution the year resolution at the end at the end of year of year Sexual Harassment 14 2 The pending cases as 10 - on 31 March 2022 are in process of resolution as per respective
Company’s policy.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 7. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases.
P4 good faith any suspected or potential violation of the CoEPC of the Company which includes aspects of discrimination and harassment.
P5 It is the duty of every Employee to report instances of possible CoEPC violations that they are aware of. At BFS Group, P6 sharing a possible concern about the Code honestly and in good faith, even if it turns out to be unfounded – is never an excuse for any kind of retaliation. The Ethics Officers will ensure CoEPC investigations are conducted in a fair and P7 confidential manner and that there will not be any adverse impact on Employees who highlight possible CoEPC violations
in good faith.
P8 BFS also prohibits retaliation for using any of BFS’s complaint reporting procedures, if made in good faith, or for filing,
P9 testifying, assisting, or participating in any investigation conducted by a government enforcement agency.
The Group appreciates the inherent, universal, indivisible, inalienable and interdependent nature of human rights. The Group strives to percolate these values, through its policies, at all levels in the Group.
Sexual harassment The Group is in compliance with the laws, as applicable.
10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the assessments at Question 9 above.
No corrective actions pertaining to Question 9 was necessitated by the Group during the year under review.
Leadership Indicators:
1. Details of a business process being modified/introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
There have been no significant human rights grievances/complaints warranting modification/introduction of business processes.
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any Human rights due-diligence conducted.
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
any person with disability in any matter related to employment as per the Right of Person with Disabilities Act, 2016 and Transgender persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019.
Corporate offices of the Group companies have ramps for easy movement and wheelchair accessible restrooms for specially abled people.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 4. Details on assessment of value chain partners P2
% of value chain partners P3 (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed Sexual Harassment The Group expects and strives to influence its value chain partners to P4
Discrimination at workplace adhere to the same values, principles and business ethics as upheld by Child labour the Group in all their dealings. No specific assessment in respect of value P5
Forced labour/Involuntary labour chain partners has been carried out other than certain elements covered in annual review of processes and controls of select sample of value chain P6 Wages partners by material subsidiaries.
Others – please specify P7
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks/concerns arising from the P8
assessments at Question 4 above.
P9 No corrective actions pertaining to Question 4 was necessitated by the Group during the year under review.
Essential Indicators
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format:
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No) If yes, name of the external agency.
During the year, energy indicators were verified as part of emission accounting by DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited for FY2021 and FY2022.
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Not Applicable
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water.
Group are present in shared premises, total freshwater consumption is not accounted. However, efforts have been made to ensure that water is consumed judiciously in the office premises.
• Two large offices in Pune have rainwater harvesting facility, with aggregate capacity of 14,600 litres.
• Water treatment plant with capacity to collect, treat and filter 10,000 litres of raw hard water per day, which is reused for gardening and common area cleaning.
• In various offices, sensor taps are installed in office washrooms to optimise water consumption.
4. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 5. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
Not Applicable P2
6. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) and its intensity, in the following format:
P3 P4 Parameter Unit FY2022 FY2021 P5 Total Scope 1 emissions (tCO2e) 12,585.24 10,386.86 LPG used for cooking, diesel generators, company
P6 owned vehicles, fire extinguishers and refrigerant
release in air conditioners and refrigerators.
P7 Total Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 26,833.47 24,542.46
P8 Purchased electricity from the grid (Net of captive solar power consumption)
P9 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (tCO2e) 39,418.71 34,929.32 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per crore of Per crore of Consolidated 0.58 0.58 Consolidated Total Revenue from operations Total Revenue from operations I ndicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No)
If yes, name of the external agency.
Y es. During the year, the assessment was carried out by DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited for FY2021 and FY2022. Refer section Independent Verification statement.
7. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details.
during the year. During the year, BFL has also adopted an Environmental Policy thereby committing not to extend fund through its commercial lending business for specified lines of businesses and specific activities.
8. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format:
I ndicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No) If yes, name of the external agency.
E -waste recycling is carried out by registered e-waste vendors. Form 2 (for maintaining records of e-waste handled/ generated), green certificates and disposal and recycling reports have been provided by these vendors.
your Company to reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes.
G iven the nature of the business, there is no usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals by the Group companies. BFS Group has systems in place to manage e-waste and engages with certified e-waste handlers for disposal of e-waste.
Approximately, 33.99 metric tonnes of e-waste generated has been disposed through authorised recyclers in FY2022.
The Group has received green, disposable and re-cycling certificates from the respective e-waste handlers.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental P2 approvals/clearances are required, please specify details.
No P3
11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the P4
current financial year:
Not Applicable P5
12. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/regulations/guidelines in India; such as the Water P6
(Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment Protection Act and P7 Rules thereunder (Yes/No) Based on the nature of business, the Group is in compliance with applicable environmental norms.
P8 Leadership Indicators
P9
1. Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the following format:
Total energy consumed from non-renewable sources (A+B+C) Gigajoules 1,26,832 1,15,081
* Rooftop Solar power plants with an installed capacity of 150 kWh have been commissioned during the year.
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No) If yes, name of the external agency.
During the year, energy indicators were verified as part of emission accounting by DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited for FY2021 and FY2022.
2. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions and its intensity, in the following format:
Total Scope 3 emissions (tCO2e) 9,922.87 3,717.29 Purchased goods and services; Fuel and energy related activities;
Upstream transportation of products; Waste generated in operations;
Business travel; Employee commute; Upstream leased assets;
# Scope 3 emission per crore of consolidated total revenue from operations for FY2021 is not representative of the Group’s operations considering the impact of Covid-related lockdown/restrictions.
Indicate if any independent assessment/evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Yes/No) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. During the year, the assessment was carried out by DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited for FY2021 and FY2022. Refer section Independent Verification statement.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 3. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant direct and indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along with prevention and remediation P2 activities.
Not Applicable P3
4. If the entity has undertaken any specific initiatives or used innovative technology or solutions to improve resource P4
efficiency, or reduce impact due to emissions/effluent discharge/waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives.
P5 Please refer to response provided at Q. 3, 7 and 9 of the essential indicators above.
P6
5. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan?
P7 Yes. All material subsidiaries have Business Continuity Plan (BCP, strategies and framekwork which is also compliant
P8 with applicable regulatory requirements. BCP envisages the likely disruptive events, their probability and impact on business operations which is assessed through business impact analysis. These aim to eliminate or minimise any
P9 potential disruption to critical business operations. The BCP includes Disaster Recovery procedures to quickly recover from an emergency. Annual BCP drills are conducted to ensure that the BCP is effective given the current nature of business processes, infrastructure, personnel, etc. For more details, refer Section <Information security, cyber security and fraud controls> 6. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or
adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard.
Given the nature of the business, there has been no adverse impact to the environment.
Essential Indicators
1. a. Number of affiliations with trade and industry chambers/associations.
BFS Group through its subsidiaries is a member of 9 trade and industry chambers/associations.
b. List the top 10 trade and industry chambers/associations (determined based on the total members of such body) the entity is a member of/affiliated to.
2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues related to anticompetitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
No corrective action was necessitated by the Group during the year under review.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 Leadership Indicators P2 1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
developments pertaining to the financial services industry. While making recommendations, in line with our policy, we P5
attempt to balance the interest of various stakeholders. The senior executives of BFS Group engage with RBI, SEBI, IRDAI and other regulators on a periodic basis or as and when required. This enables the BFS Group to understand their P6
areas of focus and concerns. All interactions with the Government and regulators are done by authorised officials of the respective company.
P7 BFS is a member of World Economic Forum and Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), through which it actively engages
P8 in policy advocacy. These engagements are overseen by Mr. Sanjiv Bajaj, Chairman & Managing Director of the Company,
also, the President of CII with effect from May 2022.
P9 BFS and its subsidiaries are members of various trade and industry chambers, associations, councils and such other collective platforms (‘forums’). We proactively contribute to the discussions and resolutions within the scope of these
forums. Refer section Stakeholder Engagement.
1. Details of Social Impact Assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year.
19 projects underwent a third-party review on various aspects. The Group further endeavours to expand the coverage of assessments by external agencies to more organisations in the coming years.
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity.
Not Applicable
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community.
The BFS Group Companies have various mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of various stakeholders. Details of such mechanisms and policies is detailed in CSR policy disclosed on the website.
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers:
(₹ in crore) FY2022 FY2021
Directly sourced from MSMEs 412.16 205.64 Leadership Indicators 1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the SIA (Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by government bodies.
P2 None
P3
3. (a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalised/vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) P4
(b) From which marginalised/vulnerable groups do you procure?
P5 (c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
P7 4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge.
P8 Not applicable
P9
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
No corrective actions pertaining to above mentioned parameters was necessitated by the Group during the year under review.
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Bajaj Group The beneficiaries are estimated for active projects and not necessarily for the year.
work centres and locations benefit different segments of the society, with focus on the marginalised, poor, needy, deprived, under-privileged and differently abled persons.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should engage with and provide value to their consumers in a responsible manner P2
Essential Indicators P3
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback.
P4 Timely and appropriate customer grievance redressal is imperative. In fact, we aim to reduce the grievances learning P5 from our experiences, through root cause analysis. The Group’s dealings with its customers are professional, fair and transparent. BFS Group has a robust customer/policy holders services governance framework and same are enumerated
P6 under the section of Customer centricity.
P7 2. Turnover of products and/services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information.
P8 Transparency and fairness in dealings with customers is followed across the Group. None of the products withhold any relevant information needed by the customers to make informed decisions.
P9
3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
FY2022 FY2021 Received Pending Remarks Received Pending Remarks during the resolution at during the resolution at year end of year year end of year Data Privacy Advertising Cyber-security NIL NIL None NIL NIL None Restrictive Trade practices Unfair Trade practices Others 6,554 - 10,737 1 *Complaints mentioned above are in the operational nature of day-to-day transactions with customers
Some of the initiatives in this regard are:
commitments, grievance redressal mechanism and ombudsman scheme, as applicable. These emphasise our commitment to fair practices by maintaining transparency in products and services offered.
• Dedicated customer complaint reduction units are in place, to review the grievance redressal mechanism under oversight of the Boards of respective material subsidiaries.
• Customer grievances are also reviewed with focus on identification of root cause, corrective action plans and customer service initiatives.
• Detailed customer grievance handling mechanism is further enumerated under section Customer centricity of the Report as well as on respective company websites.
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues.
5. Does the entity have a framework/policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy.
system. They also comply with the applicable regulatory framework and guidelines (viz. RBI’s Master Direction – Information Technology Framework for the NBFC Sector, IRDAI’s Guidelines on Information and Cyber Security for Insurers, etc.).
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 In case of material subsidiaries, IT Security related projects and operations are reviewed by a committee, under oversight of Board of respective companies. These committees meet at least on a half-yearly frequency. Further, dedicated teams P2 manage cyber security programme and operations for digital initiatives. “For more details refer Information security, cyber security and fraud controls”.
P3
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway on issues relating to advertising and delivery of essential P4 services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty/action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products/services.
P5 No penalties/regulatory action has been levied or taken on the above-mentioned parameters.
P6 Leadership Indicators
P7
1. Channels/platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web-link, P8
if available).
P9 BFS Group companies envisage to be an omnipresent financial services provider company enabling its existing and new
customer to engage, transact and be serviced online to offline and vice versa.
In addition, the Group companies actively use various social media and digital platforms to disseminate information on its products suite.
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
and make them more aware of what could be good or bad for them, frauds, addressing their questions on financial products, etc.
based audio-visual content for ease of understanding, etc. have helped us educate and create awareness amongst our customers and society at large.
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
over these areas find a dominant place in our information technology framework. These controls obviate disruptions and security threats endangering loss of customer data and disruption in business operations.
customers were intimated of the same through the call centres, electronic communications or through the Group’s website. The digital/online portals also ensured that customers could continue to be served during the lockdowns.
4. Does the entity display product information on the product over and above what is mandated as per local laws? (Yes/No/ Not Applicable) If yes, provide details in brief.
Transparency and fairness in dealings with customers is followed across the Group. None of the products withhold any relevant information needed by the customers to make informed decisions.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Section A Section B Section C Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 P1 The BFS Group companies through their charters, policies, etc. communicate the customer rights, company commitments, grievance redressal mechanism and ombudsman scheme, as applicable which emphasise our P2 commitment to fair practices by maintaining transparency in products and services offered.
entity, significant locations of operation of the entity or the entity as a whole? (Yes/No) P4
Yes. The material subsidiaries carry out various surveys on regular basis for continuous listening to customers and P5 driving continuous transformation to provide them a frictionless experience.
P6 5. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
b. P ercentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers – P9
None. The Group has not witnessed any instances of data breaches during the year.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Bajaj Finserv Limited Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report FY2022 Mapping UN SDG Goals We have mapped our initiatives under the BRSR principles to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Principle 1 : Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Introduction DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of Bajaj Finserv Limited (‘the Company’ or ‘Bajaj Finserv’, Corporate Identification Number: L65923PN2007PLC130075) to carry out an independent verification of Bajaj Finserv Group’s Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (the ‘GHG Emissions’) data in spreadsheets and for its seven (7) subsidiaries and two (2) joint ventures sites for the period 1st April 2020 – 31st March 2021 and 1st April 2021 – 31st March 2022. This verification has been carried out as part of the overall work of assurance of Bajaj Finserv's Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting for FY 2021-22 and other disclosures as applicable.
for Defining Report Content and Quality. This verification applies a ±5% uncertainty threshold towards errors and omissions.
or co-responsibility for any decision a person or entity would make based on this verification statement. The verification was carried out from March 2022 to May 2022 by a team of qualified sustainability and GHG assessors.
Scope, Boundary and Limitations of Verification The scope of work agreed upon with Company includes verification of its GHG emissions as below:
emissions from the leakage of refrigerants
• Scope 2 emissions arising from consumption of purchased electricity from the grid.
• Scope 3 emissions arising from employee commute, business travel (air, train and road), shared diesel generators, freight goods and hotel stay.
criterion adopted by Bajaj Finserv Limited and includes the following seven subsidiaries and two joint ventures in India:
The subsidiaries Bajaj Finserv Mutual Fund Trustee Limited, Bajaj Finserv Asset Management Limited and Bajaj Finserv Ventures Limited of Bajaj Finserv Group does not form part of boundary for verification.
We did not come across any limitations to the agreed scope of work except the use of default values to calculate GHG emissions.
The VeriSustain protocol is available on request from www.dnv.com
* Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Verification Methodology The verification was conducted by DNV in accordance with the requirements as set out in VeriSustain for a limited level of verification while adopting a risk-based approach and selection of samples. We carried out the following activities:
• Desk review of the Company’s emissions data for FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-22 provided in spreadsheets.
• Review of activity data and related evidence maintained in corresponding dashboard systems.
• Interaction with key managers and data owners to review data consolidation systems of the Company and sampled operational sites including reviews of emission factors and assumptions used for calculations.
• Review of the consolidated GHG emissions data in order to calculate the total emission of Bajaj Finserv Group for all subsidiaries and joint ventures with the corresponding environment and sustainability teams.
Due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and related travel restrictions, we carried out remote assessments following DNV’s remote audit methodology, as one-to-one discussions and onsite location audits were not feasible.
believe that the GHG data (absolute emissions) as below are not a correct representation of Bajaj Finserv Limited’s GHG emissions data during FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-2022:
Note 1: The average retail price of diesel and petrol used for calculating DG set consumption and owned diesel & petrol cars consumption is based on the data provided by Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell data, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas dated 17-March 2022.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

Note 2: The Guest House facility commonly shared between Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited & Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company Limited, associated electricity and LPG consumption is apportioned equally between both subsidiaries Note 3: The car hire charges for Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited is calculated based on the existing contract charges (80 km / 8hrs and 300 km /day for outstation package) rather than actual km travelled.
Note 4: The bifurcation of total fuel reimbursement amount claimed in Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company Limited are based on the assumption 30% and 70% for 2 Wheelers and 4 Wheelers respectively and 65% and 35% for consumption of petrol and diesel respectively.
Note 5: The average mileage of Company Owned Vehicles – Diesel for Bajaj Finance Limited – CF is assumed as 11 km / litre.
Note 7: Emissions factors for purchased electricity - Grid Emission factor based on weighted average factor of 0.79 tCO2/MWh from the CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector User Guide Version 16.0 March 2021.
Summary of Emissions:
Emissions and e) Refrigerant release in air conditioners and refrigerators.
procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Bajaj Finserv and its subsidiaries in the scope of verification during FY 2020-21 and FY 2021-22 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work.
Lead Verifier Technical Reviewer DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. DNV Business Assurance India Private Limited, India.
Mumbai, India, 31st May 2022.
ESG initiatives Statutory reporting

ESG is not just the right thing to do, it is what will shape a better tomorrow for all!
www.bajajfinserv.in