TCS/SE/46/2023-24 June 29, 2023 at 3.30 p.m. IST through Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual Means.
through electronic mode to the Members, who have registered their e-mail addresses with the Company/ Depositories.
The Integrated Annual Report containing the Notice is also uploaded on the Company’s website www.tcs.com.
This is for your information and records.
Company Secretary cc:
Corporate Identity No. (CIN): L22210MH1995PLC084781

About TCS Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, consulting and Innovate, Adapt, Thrive.
A part of the Tata group, India’s largest multinational economic outlook, companies are now recalibrating their plans business group, TCS has over 614,000 of the world’s best- and adapting to the changed circumstances.
place in leading sustainability indices such as the MSCI Global see it as their preferred all-weather partner, making its services Sustainability Index and the FTSE4Good Emerging Index. For an enterprise staple, and its business very resilient.
YF YF
YF YF
YF Purpose-driven.
Resilient. Adaptable

Content About TCS............................................................................. 02 Consolidated Financial Statements Board of Directors................................................................ 04 Independent Auditor’s Report…………...............................… 183 Management Team.............................................................. 05 Consolidated Balance Sheet………………................................ 190 Letter from the Chairman.................................................... 06 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss…...................... 191 Letter to Shareholders......................................................... 08 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity..................... 192 Letter from the CEO............................................................. 11 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows…….......................... 194 The Year Gone by................................................................. 12 Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Statements…………………………………………………....... 196 Integrated Reporting Framework Standalone Financial Statements TCS Integrated Business Model…………………........................ 15 Financial Capital…………………………………………....................... 16 Independent Auditor’s Report……………………………....……..... 251 Human Capital……………………………………………....................... 18 Standalone Balance Sheet………………………........................... 260 Intellectual Capital……………………………………......................... 20 Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss…......................... 261 Social Capital……………………………………………......................... 22 Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity....................... 262 Natural Capital……………………………………………...................... 24 Standalone Statement of Cash Flows……….......................... 264 Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Thematic Section Statements………………………………………………………................. 266 Helping Versuni become a Digital-First, Statement under section 129 of the Companies Act, Innovation-Led Standalone Entity…………………………............ 26 2013 relating to Subsidiary Companies…………………………... 316 Enabling Eversource Energy’s Transition to a Green Energy Future………………………………………………......... 27 Glossary ………………………….................................................. 321 Innovate, Adapt, Thrive: A Fireside Chat............................. 28 Sustainability Disclosures Revolutionizing Small Value Payments in South Africa....... 30 Supporting Takenaka Corporation Realize its Vision Identification of Material Topics …………………...................... 330 of a Sustainable Society....................................................... 31 Climate change risk and opportunities assessment Q&A with CFO and CHRO.................................................... 32 and management…………………………………………………............ 333 Innovating to Improve Crop Yields and GRI Content Index………………………………………....................... 339 Farmer Incomes................................................................... 34 Statutory Section Notice………………………………………......................................... 35 Directors’ Report................................................................. 72 Management Discussion and Analysis................................ 86 Awards and Accolades......................................................... 109 Corporate Governance Report............................................ 113 Corporate Social Responsibility........................................... 136 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report……......... 145 Content | 3

Board of Directors Non-Independent, Non Executive Independent, Non Executive N Chandrasekaran Aarthi O P Bhatt Dr Pradeep Kumar Hanne Sorensen Chairman Subramanian Khosla C C M N M N C M M I C M I M M I
Non-Independent, Executive K Krithivasan N G Subramaniam Keki Mistry Don Callahan CEO & MD COO & ED
M M M NE M M NE C C M I M M I I Independent, Non-Executive Director 63 NE Non-Independent, Executive Director Average Age (years) 56 72 N Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director Board Committees C Chairman M Member Average Tenure on 07 the Board (years) 0 16 Audit Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Board Independence (%) Stakeholders’ Relationship Corporate Social Committee Responsibility Committee 56% 44% Independent Non-Independent Executive Risk Management Committee Committee* Average Tenure of Independent 06 *Samir Seksaria (Chief Financial Officer) is also a member of Directors on the Board (years) 04 11 the Committee Board of Directors | 4

Management Team Corporate Business Heads K Krithivasan Susheel Vasudevan Chief Executive Officer Relationship Incubation Group and Managing Director Krishnan Ramanujam Enterprise Growth Group N G Subramaniam Chief Operating Officer Debashis Ghosh and Executive Director Business Transformation Group Samir Seksaria Suresh Muthuswami Chief Financial Officer Chairman – TCS North America Milind Lakkad Amit Bajaj Chief Human Resources Officer North America Rajashree R Amit Kapur Chief Marketing Officer UK & Ireland K Ananth Krishnan Sapthagiri Chapalapalli Chief Technology Officer Europe Madhav Anchan General Counsel Legal Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde Company Secretary Management Team | 5

Letter from the Chairman The global environment is going through considerable changes. At the same time, the world is navigating several important transitions: the Energy transition, the Supply Chain transition and the AI transition.
innovation, and offer a huge growth opportunity for the IT industry.
Letter from the Chairman | 6

Dear Shareholder, a central focus. The impact of AI and Machine learning is going to be profound. There is a transition already underway from I am pleased to share that your company has done well in a predictive AI to generative AI. Majority of the businesses are volatile global environment in the year gone by. In FY 2023, still adopting predictive AI and are on the journey of capturing your company delivered revenue of ₹225,458 crore, a growth of large volume of data, harnessing the power of cloud and IoT.
17.6%. This growth has come at an industry-leading operating There are varying levels of adoption in companies across sectors.
margin of 24.1%. Leveraging generative AI would further require technology innovation and investments.
data and artificial intelligence (AI) and reimagine customer and in research. Our technology strengths make us well-placed to employee experiences. respond to the global demand and scale up our talent base.
614,000 associates with 35.7% women associates. leverages technologies like AI and cloud to enable effective employee engagement and collaboration.
The global environment is going through considerable changes.
Geopolitical factors such as the conflict between Russia and Your company is significantly investing in building AI capabilities Ukraine, rising inflation and volatile commodity prices have which include products and platforms that are AI-powered.
At the same time, the world is navigating several transitions. with IoT, edge and AI will enable new digital transformation Undoubtedly, these transitions will require significant opportunities across industries, both industrial and consumer.
growth opportunity for the IT industry. in collaboration with our global academic partners and start-up ecosystem.
The global energy transition is accelerating. Businesses are making clear commitments towards a sustainable future.
emerging. This requires investments in technology and very best in his new role as CEO & MD of your company.
standards and regulations are coming into play. Across the facets support.
of this transition, investments in IT and digital technology will be an important enabler for businesses.
situation is altering the global supply chains. Companies are rebalancing their supply chains for resilience and efficiency.
and supply chain operations as well as to build ecosystem integration with partners.
Letter from the Chairman | 7

Our full services capability enables us to help our clients thrive, in good times and bad. During the up-cycle, we help clients accelerate and expand their technology-led innovation to differentiate themselves and drive growth. On the down cycle, we help them adapt, using technology to drive the efficiency, agility and resilience needed to cope with a faltering economy, and prepare for better times ahead.
was ₹225,458 crore, a growth of 17.6% over the prior year (13.7% in constant currency).
24.1%. Our Net Margin was at 18.7%. The Earnings Per Share was at ₹115.19, a growth of 11.2% over the prior year.
Banking, Financial Services and Insurance grew 14.6% while to cope with a faltering economy, and prepare for better times Manufacturing grew 14.1%. Others, which make up 8.2% of ahead.
revenues, grew 22.5%.
share, bringing the total dividend for the year to ₹115 per competitive edge in this phase of the cloud adoption cycle.
Our performance this year reflects how much of an enterprise dynamically ramping up resource consumption during periods staple IT services have become. Our full services capability of high demand, and automatic ramping down at other times.
enables us to help our clients thrive, in good times and bad. Elsewhere, we offered our FinOps advisory and cloud managed During the up-cycle, we help clients accelerate and expand services to rein in cloud costs.
innovation within enterprises. The availability of compute, data 1 GRI 2-22
Letter to Shareholders | 8

and networks at scale provides access to powerful technologies Newer developments like generative like advanced analytics and machine learning, applied to diverse AI, large language models, and areas like computer vision, text and speech processing, in quantum computing triggered more domains like dynamic supply chain optimization, new molecule experimentation and innovation discovery in life sciences and usage-based pricing of insurance coverage. by our clients. Our investments in research and innovation across Newer developments like generative AI, large language models, different industries, and our Pace and quantum computing triggered more experimentation and innovation by our clients. Our investments in research and innovation architecture have innovation across different industries, and our Pace innovation positioned us well to partner with architecture have positioned us well to partner with them in them in these initiatives.
further traction in FY 2023. 7 new clients signed up during the year, bringing the total to 30 clients.
underpinned by technologies like data marketplaces, API and model that significantly boosts our clients’ competitiveness.
blockchain, in industries like transportation and public sector;
spends and showing greater interest in such operating model industries.
transformations.
and play transformation of a range of business and technology services of various home appliances to households.
functions, horizontal and vertical. Nearly 300 of our clients have used it to transform their business and IT operations.
same rationale is driving more vendor consolidation initiatives journey experience.
that favor a few strategic partners with end-to-end service offerings, the right innovation capabilities and scale.
the work we did for Philips Domestic Appliances in its journey service delivery team, helped us win several large deals to be a standalone company, and how we helped Eversource throughout the year.
Energy pursue its carbon neutrality aspirations.
use them innovatively in the back office, embedding them FY 2022 and over 44,000 in FY 2023 – and training them on the into reimagined processes to drive greater velocity, agility, technologies most in demand.
throughput and resilience – which, among other things, also enhances customer experience.
Letter to Shareholders | 9

In FY 2023, we focused on utilizing the spare capacity built up in So long, farewell the prior year, and recalibrated our hiring especially as attrition This year marks a key milestone in my journey with TCS, and started falling in the second half of the year. Our LTM attrition in an important transition point for the company, as I step down IT services for the year was 20.1%. Net addition in FY 2023 was from my role as CEO and MD on 31st May 2023. It has been an 22,600, and the closing headcount was 614,795. Our workforce absolute privilege and an unparalleled learning experience to continued to be very diverse, with over 150 nationalities lead our company in the last six years, a period of tremendous represented and with women making up 35.7% of the employee growth and transformation for us.
base.
the total number to over 110,000, making TCS one of the Top 2 aspirations continue to power the organization’s success.
partners to the largest cloud providers.
We continued to work with communities across the world, me learn and shaped my worldview. Thank you for all your pursuing our long-standing commitment to programs in the support and encouragement.
Our large programs in India around literacy, digital ahead, and I look forward to watching the company’s continued entrepreneurship and youth skilling continued to gain scale. success from outside.
communities, such as mental health, climate action, circularity, education, skilling, mentoring, and conservation.
increased our use of renewable energy. Renewable energy sources today make up 55% of the total (7.25% in 2016).
Letter to Shareholders | 10

Letter from the As part of their continuing digital transformation journey, we see sustained focus on cloud adoption, data architecture, customer CEO experience and business model transformation. Through these initiatives, our customers intend to avoid technology obsolescence, become an intelligent enterprise, introduce new Dear Shareholder, products and services, orchestrate ecosystems and provide immersive, hyper-personalized experiences. In addition, all our I am truly humbled by this opportunity to lead this remarkable customers have also committed to ambitious net-zero carbon organization that I have been part of for 34 years. The culture, emission targets.
generative AI, virtual reality / metaverse, digital twin and others to lead this talented team.
are also gaining attention and are likely to attract investments in the short to medium term.
technology adoption. Your company continues to focus on stakeholders that we serve.
with key technology providers, expanding the innovation ecosystem and building its own products and platforms.
strong pipeline replenishment gives us a good visibility for the medium term.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your continued support in this exciting journey ahead.
Letter from the CEO | 11

The Year Gone by Named to FORTUNE® magazine’s list of the World’s Most Admired Companies, regarded as a barometer of corporate reputation. Evaluation criteria include innovation, social responsibility, quality of management, After a stellar 22-year career at TCS and global competitiveness, talent management, and quality a successful stint as Managing Director of products/services.
K Krithivasan to step into the role with effect from June 1, 2023.
23 IT service providers ranked on customer satisfaction, TCS topped the list, scoring 83%, versus the group’s average of 75%.
will help Phoenix Group drive synergies and enhance customer experience.
also recognized as a Global Top Employer for the eighth year three interim dividends of ₹8 each. This, along with the final in a row, and as Top Employer in North America, Europe, Asia dividend of ₹24, amounted to a total dividend of ₹115 per share.
Pacific, and Latin America. The total shareholder payout for the year was ₹42,079 crore.
position were cited as key credit strengths supporting this rating. and integrate new systems around the S/4 HANA ERP platform and transform the operating model using AI and ML.
TCS-sponsored marathons, such as the TCS New York City M
M t t o o o a a t k r r h a a e o t t h h n d o o e t n n
M h lig , e a a h
T n r ti t
C a d t t
S o l h e
T f
A o
C r s n m u
S p n o s
L n t i n e d e s r i r o n d s r g a a s ö m h n l d i o p
M p s o p p a f e e r t a c t h
T t t r a e h
C e t
S o t
T o u n
A C
r r s , S
m n T
a e L
s C
l o d t i S
k e n e t r T
o d d .
a T
t r m h h n o e e n M
M t s c o t a o a r r m r
W e a a e t p t a t h h a s t o o e n , n n m r y f
.
t Toronto Waterfront Marathon
Lidingöloppet New York City The Year Gone by | 12

consumer and agent experience.
computing to tackle business challenges that defy the capabilities of conventional technologies.
Chosen by Rail Delivery Group, UK’s leading rail industry membership body, for the creation of a Rail Data Marketplace.
Tata Group Chairperson and TCS Chairman, N Chandrasekaran, improve transparency and enable a UK-wide railway innovation was bestowed with the Eisenhower Global Leadership Award ecosystem.
transactions. With the enhanced solution, central banks will be purpose-driven and influential leaders of our time”.
as its transformation partner to modernize its infrastructure services providers using CBDCs as well as offer their customers landscape using TCS Enterprise Cloud™. Additionally, TCS will the ability to hold CBDC balances.
machine-first core operations; and meet its net zero goals. accelerate the build of its new strategic technology architecture, supporting the Group’s growth.
retailer. The program aims to create a new unified platform for new capabilities with automation solutions that help improve CRM, product catalogue and process automation. TCS brings accuracy for Microsoft, while also increasing its speed to market.
customer analytics, in addition to deep knowledge of utilities Microsoft to better serve customers, showcasing what it means which will help AGL enhance its speed to market, and transform to focus on strategy, impact, agility, and modernization.
job creation and building digital skills in the workforce.
The Year Gone by | 13

Q2 Partnered with C&S Wholesale Was the only Indian brand in the Top 50 Q1 Grocers, Inc., to build a new cloud- in the 2022 Kantar BrandZ Top 100 Most based operations platform to reduce Valuable Global Brands. TCS was also the company’s carbon footprint and named among the Top 10 fastest growing enhance the customer experience. brands with its brand value growing 61% YoY Using AI and machine learning, C&S’s new (as measured by Kantar). Later in the year, operations platform will monitor traffic patterns the company was ranked the second most and identify optimal distribution routes, thereby valuable IT services brand (brand value up 2% reducing food waste and achieving greater fuel efficiency. to US$17.2 billion) by Brand Finance.
solution providers to embrace digital technologies and new service providers in the 2022 TechMarketView UK Software business models across the entire mobility value chain. and IT Services Supplier Rankings report.
launch of the new INNOVATE workspace, powered by TCS and co-innovation hub after Tokyo, New York and Amsterdam.
sectors. Later in the year, TCS launched its fifth Pace Port in top talent and emerging technology, to drive innovation.
Toronto.
transparency and flexibility in measuring investment portfolios against ESG criteria and benchmarks.
dedication and commitment, with an association of over four decades with TCS and the Tata Group.
and Wyoming, and is under implementation at a couple of other states.
past 12 months. The list is based on their annual poll of investors FORMER CFO, TCS and analysts in the region.
The Year Gone by | 14

Quality Management Management, Delivery, Sales, Project Partners Technology and Co-Innovation Network (COIN) CUSTOMER
ENGAGEMENT Talent Development Talent Engagement Talent Acquisition Services & Solutions Products & Platforms Research & Innovation TCS Integrated Business Model Value Creation using the Five Capitals Stakeholder Payout, Reserves Social Capital Intellectual Capital Investors, Customers, Domain knowledge Employees, Communities FINANCIAL CAPITAL Contextual knowledge Goodwill Intellectual Property Sources of funds from business operations, financing or investing activities Natural Capital Human Capital Renewable and Skills, competencies, Non-renewable Resources capabilities, knowledge and motivation of employees
OPERATIONS Customer Goodwill/Brand Value/CSR/Taxes Contextual Knowledge
VALUE TCS Integrated Business Model | 15

Financial Capital TCS’ longevity is testimony to the strength of our business Outcomes model and our ability to reinvent ourselves in an ever-evolving Best in class profitability and strong balance sheet provide technology landscape to stay relevant to our customers while greater ability to invest in newer capabilities and to weather remaining focused on creating value for all our stakeholders.
Tax expense 1 GRI 201-1
Financial Capital | 16

364,641 949,651 771,461 457,191 854,522 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2019 2020 2021* 2022 2023 (₹ crore) (₹ crore) FY FY FY FY FY
2019 2020 2021* 2022 2023 054,73 25.6% 25.9% 25.3% 24.6% 24.1% 085,83 184,24 354,84 732,45 101.5% 99.2% 99.8% 98.6% 92.6% 841,31 000,61 550,41 048,71 741,41 627,91 818,51 Revenue Trend Operating Profit Trend CAGR 12.9%
Operating Profit Cash Usage# Shareholder Payouts 1.0% Invested Funds 0.2% Acquisitions etc 7.6% Capex Shareholder Distribution 91.2% # Cash usage for the period Dividend Special Dividend Buyback including tax FY 2019 to FY 2023 Shareholder Payout ratio (Including special dividend and buyback, including tax) # includes proposed final dividend *Excluding provision towards legal claim 395,82 116.2% 104.2% 100.1% 99.6% 90.9% 963,23 208,83 949,93 569,14 Operating Margin OCF and Cash Conversion FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY
2019 2020 2021* 2022 2023 2019 2020 2021* 2022 2023 (₹ crore) Operating Cash Flow (OCF) OCF to Net Profit Ratio (₹ crore) 50.38 91.68 72.98 26.301 91.511 Earnings per share CAGR 11.4%
(Amount in ₹) 291,22 #365,71 615,42 Financial Capital | 17

Human Capital1 Best in Class Talent Management Workforce 614,795 Globally distributed, Employees highly localized Net Addition 22,600 Recalibrated to falling Employees attrition; highest ever gross addition of lateral hires 20.1% Talent Retention LTM Best in class, despite unprecedented attrition in IT employee churn across the industry; expected services to revert to normal range in FY 2024.
%0.21 %3.31 FY 2019 FY 2023
India North America United Kingdom >50 0.9% >50 16.3% >50 15.3% yrs 0.2% yrs 5.5% yrs 11.8% 40-50 7.2% 40-50 21.3% 40-50 17.4% yrs 1.5% yrs 7.1% yrs 10.1% 30-40 25.6% 30-40 20.5% 30-40 15.8% yrs 11.7% yrs 12.3% yrs 10.4% <30 30.3% <30 11.7% <30 9.4% yrs 22.6% yrs 5.3% yrs 9.8% Europe Emerging Markets APAC >50 19.9% >50 5.7% >50 6.5% yrs 5.6% yrs 1.9% yrs 2.0% 40-50 17.2% 40-50 12.2% 40-50 14.7% yrs 6.6% yrs 5.2% yrs 6.8% 30-40 20.9% 30-40 27.9% 30-40 24.6% yrs 13.3% yrs 13.2% yrs 20.6% <30 10.0% <30 22.7% <30 12.7% yrs 6.5% yrs 11.2% yrs 12.1% Male Female 1 GRI 401-1, GRI 405-1
Human Capital | 18

Talent Development TCS takes a purpose-centric approach to learning and development that leverages horizontal collaboration and the abundance of internal expertise. Catering to millennial tastes, training is just-in-time, just-for-me and just-enough.
53K certified on hyperscaler cloud technologies in FY 2023;
500,000 employees trained in digital technologies;
Mid-level Training 90% participation;
relevant technologies 2 GRI 404-1
Human Capital | 19

Intellectual Capital The company channelizes its research and innovation Highlights efforts and outcomes towards building better futures through two external facing brands: 40+ 260+ Research and • TCS Research produces foundational inventions that publications Innovation impact industry and society.
• TCS PaceTM brings the best of TCS’ intellectual content, innovation assets, capabilities, and practices to clients.
Intellectual Capital | 20

Products and Platforms • 10 new wins and 15 go-lives in FY 2023 • AI powered enterprise digital twin covering customer, • Highlights: product and process to help business leaders simulate ◦ Services more than 35% of the world’s banking and optimize enterprise decisions, predict and proactively population manage outcomes
• 8 out of top 10 custodian and asset management firms • Helps businesses achieve:
• Digital platform to optimally automate and manage IT processes. FY 2023 highlights:
◦ Analyzed 600 million lines of legacy code, delivering ADDTM
a productivity improvement of 20-30% • 111 new wins in FY 2023 • Comprehensive suite for digital transformation of drug development and clinical trials • 700+ clinical trials supported by TCS ADD Platforms till date.
Intellectual Capital | 21

8.21 5.31 9.41 8.61 2.71 Social Capital TCS’ business model and strategy have resulted in deep and Investors enduring customer relationships, a vibrant and engaged TCS is seen as a benchmark in its outreach to investors, its workforce, a steady expansion of its addressable market, a transparency and disclosures, and communication of its longer- strong reputation as a responsible corporate citizen and a proven term strategy. For the last many years, its Investor Relations track record in delivering longer term stakeholder value. All of program has been winning awards based on surveys of investors this has significantly enhanced the company’s brand value, which and analysts across Asia.
is a quantifiable measure of its social capital with stakeholders.
which to add value in newer parts of the client’s business, TCS continually expands and deepens its client relationships.
in competitive assessments ensures visibility with prospective clients who use such reports to evaluate vendors.
events. TCS is among the Top 2 brands in IT services by brand 2021/22 EUROPE value according to Brand Finance.
2014 EUROPE 2020/21 EUROPE Whitelane Research Whitelane Research Whitelane Research TCS Brand Valuation ( $ billion )
FY FY FY FY FY 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Source: Brand Finance 8.02 5.22 291 215 133 99 60 44
FY FY FY FY 2019 2023 2019 2023 US$ 20Mn+ US$ 50Mn+ US$ 100Mn+ 29 621 699 meetings* 269 hours
FY FY 2022 2023 * includes multiple investors in group meetings Social Capital | 22

Community1 Education Literacy Entrepreneurship Youth employment Health & Business with program Wellness purpose Ignite My Future Literacy as a Service BridgeIT 31K Marginalized Tata Medical Engaged over 433 Global Impact Global Impact 347 active Youth trained Center, Kolkata and customers, creating Over 293K students Over 1.1 Mn entrepreneurs in 57% Women Cancer Institute, 186 purpose learners FY 2023 Chennai partnerships goIT Providing valuable Over 117,600 Global Impact digital services to new patient Over 41K students rural India consultations Our CSR programs on Education, Employment and Entrepreneurship ensured the inclusion of marginalized talent through social transformation 2.3x 2.5x 88% 81% Enhancement in income Higher earnings for women Students who completed LaaS Program participants for women who complete BridgeIT participants goIT demonstrated encouraged their own YEP and get employment compared to other self- understanding of how children especially girls to in comparison to a female employed in rural India technology can be used to go to schools employee in a rural areas improve their community ₹866 crore CSR Spend 4.5 million beneficiaries 150K+ volunteers 2.8 million hours 7 major partnerships for program implementation at scale 1 GRI 413-1
Social Capital | 23

TCS combines its strong sense of purpose with digital Outcomes expertise and innovation to drive not only its own sustainability journey, but also that of its customers. Reduced …Increased The company’s environmental stewardship rests on four Energy Use of … reduced TCS’ pillars: carbon footprint mitigation, water conservation and Consumption Renewable Carbon footprint.
recycling, waste reduction and recycling, and preserving and… Energy..
biodiversity.
(vs base year 2016) and Net Zero by 2030 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY
Initiatives:
• 85% of emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 due to purchased electricity for office blocks.
• Prioritized energy optimization and greater use of renewable energy.
• Use of Clever Energy to optimize energy consumption, green buildings, green IT.
1.65 PUPUEE
37.2% EEnneerrggyy e ffiefficiceinecnyc y 55.2% Renewable electricity iinniititiaatitivveess a att T TCCS Sd adtaa ta (1 R 1 e 2 n e G w W ab h le i n e nergy centecresn itne rMs umbai FY2 as 0 % 2 2 o ) f a to s t % al o en f ergy and Chennai consumed total electricity consumed 1100.2.2 MW
MWp Rooftop solar cRaopoaftcoitpy saoclaror ss 64.4 6 % 4.6% capcaacmityp aucsreosss % Total office space campuses % Total office space (for India) as per (for India) as per IGBC standards IGBC standards 1 TCFD Metrics and Targets A, B and C Natural Capital | 24

Water Conservation Waste Reduction & Reuse Target: Reduction in waste generation, Target: 3% YoY reduction in freshwater consumption across maximizing recycling/ reuse to divert waste owned campuses sent to landfill Initiatives include conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, rainwater harvesting (RWH) and employee awareness. All new campuses have 100% been designed for 50% higher water efficiency, 100% treatment and Recycling of regulated wastes, recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting.
Biodiversity Conservation and enhancement initiatives within TCS campuses.
187 species of fauna 39,000 well grown trees.
Natural Capital | 25

Helping Versuni become a Digital-First, Innovation-Led Standalone Entity Growth and transformation are often constrained by the products industry and simplified ways of working to drive speed, challenge of integrating with the legacy operations stack, and agility and insights-led decision-making.
to wipe the slate clean and transform into a digitally lean, agile, with more sustainable materials, that are easier to repair, and innovation-led organization. refurbish, recycle, and help to reduce waste.
transforming it across all business domains, within an ambitious will provide a better employee experience and enable a more 2-year timeframe. responsive HR function.
and pursue its vision of turning houses into homes, and building lifetime engagement with consumers.
domain and technology expertise is helping us get to our goals as an insights-led digital company.
transformation will help us continue to innovate and to stay true to our mission to turn houses into homes.
Customer Stories | 26

Enabling Eversource Energy’s Transition to a Green Energy Future Making green energy affordable is central to our business Energy utilities are leading the world’s energy transition, strategy. Its technology enablement was a fairly complex investing in renewable energy sources as part of their journey program with multiple sub-programs running concurrently.
helped meet the regulatory mandate as well as Eversource’s Eversource Energy is a Fortune 500 energy company that clean energy and energy affordability goals.
operations carbon neutral by 2030, and bringing more Eversource Energy clean and affordable energy to New England.
respective states, as part of state-level Net Zero programs.
improve affordability and increase adoption of energy efficiency programs.
pursue a very aggressive implementation schedule for each state.
accelerating not only its own journey to carbon neutrality but also that of the states it services.
Customer Stories | 27

Innovate, Adapt, Thrive:
How does TCS help clients innovate, adapt and thrive? require processing of large amounts of unstructured data, text, images and higher-level abstraction.
variations of a particular clause. HR could use it for handling and services.
ready, digital core that enables quick, insights-driven decision quality check developed code for adherence to standards.
quickly, and launch new products, services and business models enterprises and expanding the opportunity significantly.
to drive growth and transformation.
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive refers to how our scale, full services industry become redundant?
long time. In fact, this is the 50th anniversary of TCS’ very first longer-term aspirations.
HV: People often relate innovations to serendipitous discoveries. on demand, converting source code from any programming We help clients structure and scale the innovation process using language to any other language.
For an insurance major, we worked with the client’s teams though there is effort involved in defining the model up-front, and collated actionable innovation ideas through a series of clients see significant productivity benefits.
eight months, dozens of innovation ideas were identified, and 24 interface empowers people with no coding knowledge to build progressed to become MVPs. sophisticated applications very quickly.
Generative AI is the talk of the season. What is the business deflation.
opportunity around it?
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive: A Fireside Chat | 28

What is the evidence for this thesis? platform launched in 2009, with shared services bundled in, went on to make us the market leader in life and pensions HV: The evidence is empirical. Every new generation of administration in the UK.
technology required just training sufficient numbers of decades.
last decade, we not only did that at scale on the entire class Take for example, the switch from assembly language to C.
with one line of code in C and embed its entire logic in the code specific business context.
We scaled up our Research and Innovation, exploring use cases 10x effort deflation didn’t result in mass layoffs of programmers.
new innovation frameworks and set up Pace Ports, our function points.
big cost deflation, but nobody’s IT budgets deflated. Instead, transformational engagements that uniquely distinguish us.
those savings went into building new systems and volumes rose to fill budgets and spending on IT services has only expanded.
We are helping clients explore and develop end-to-end Likewise with low-code, no-code platforms.
redundant in the West. indigenous network stack for 4G and 5G, a unique achievement KAK: With most goods and services, when the price falls, any that differentiates us from our global peers.
transition, which will be the big drivers of growth in the coming to till.
years.
accomplish much more with the same budget. But even then, tremendous growth and gain share.
We are today one of the largest partners – in some cases, to fill the incremental capacity created by new technologies.
experimentation and more demand for our services. To that intellectual property on their platforms.
We are the launch partner for their latest offerings, whether it up the capacity it frees up through higher productivity.
KAK: We have been leaders for a while, but perceptions can leadership, what is?
be too rooted in historic stereotypes to recognize the change.
Innovate, Adapt, Thrive: A Fireside Chat | 29

Revolutionizing Small Value Payments in South Africa BankservAfrica, Africa’s leading automated clearing house, On the front-end, users can make a payment, or a request has been facilitating payments in South Africa and the region, for payment, through a payment service called PayShap, for over five decades through its seamless interbank clearing formally launched in March 2023. Very conveniently, users and settlement services. It has a track record of pioneering don’t need to enter the recipient’s bank account or branch innovations like the SASWITCH, a national network of code details to make payments. Instead, they can use a interoperable ATMs, in the mid-80s. unique identifier such as the recipient’s mobile number, or a bank-generated identification number, which serves as When the South African Reserve Bank unveiled its Vision a proxy for the full banking details. This proxy and resolution 2025 strategy to reform the South African national payment is enabled through a tamper-proof blockchain-based solution system framework, BankservAfrica took the lead along with its powered by TCS’ Quartz Smart Solution.
solution with TCS BaNCS for Market Infrastructure at its core, new fee-based revenues for banks, and also offer customer using high performance microservices for clearing and payment. insights with which they can offer credit to more consumers.
purpose-driven organizations that came together to build this platform of national importance.
changing consumer behaviors, PayShap has the potential to reshape sectors and transform the South African economy.
Customer Stories | 30

Supporting Takenaka Corporation Realize We selected TCS for supporting our digital transformation not only because of its accumulated global knowledge and technological its Vision of a capabilities, but also because throughout the long histories of both Sustainable Society companies, there is a common bond in our corporate cultures of valuing stakeholders, including society and customers as well as Founded by a master builder (toryo) more than employees. Building 4.0 will turn the dreams of our stakeholders 400 years ago, Takenaka Corporation has into reality, and we would like to develop it as a foundation to specialized in building construction with an connect with a sustainable society of the future.
quality management, and its commitment to realizing a sustainable society.
innovation is the Building 4.0TM digital platform, which is being developed and operated in partnership with TCS.
superior decision-making across a wide range of operations through advanced analysis using machine learning and AI.
personnel required to achieve target schedules, improve visibility of project progress, and enhance labor productivity.
through better designs, understand project risks, and improve creation services that is in harmony with the environment and KPIs for quality, cost, schedule, safety, and the environment. local communities.
Customer Stories | 31

Q&A with Samir Seksaria Milind Lakkad
CFO CHRO You stood out in the industry with virtually zero attrition at Is normalizing attrition a margin tailwind for FY 2024? What is
senior levels. Now you had CEO-level attrition for the first time your margin outlook for the year?
SS: Normalizing attrition is definitely a relief, but I wouldn’t call it senior talent?
and might want to pursue their dreams and aspirations just cost is a recurring one. But yes, hopefuly we won’t have any new like anybody else. As for our track record in retaining senior headwind due to attrition in FY 2024.
leadership talent, it remains industry-leading.
memory, and have been central to our ability to weather the increase in Q1 and we should see further increases in travel unprecedented attrition and influx of fresh talent without letting expenses during the year.
highest ever number of large deals in Q4. Won’t this hurt We not only retained our leadership talent better, but also margins in FY 2024?
of large deals, with TCV over $50 million. And yet, during this witnessed.
period, our EBIT margin has remained in a tight band between 24 and 26 percent.
can either drop prices and sacrifice margins to deliver those Q&A | 32

savings, or propose a completely different operating model One, we are running a program called Elevate that empowers that uses lesser effort, protects or even expands margins, and employees to take control of their careers and pursue their achieves the client’s objectives. aspirations by achieving certain learning goals. Meeting those goals can result in significant pay increases, perhaps TCS has differentiated itself in this space with the latter even a doubling of salary. Second, there will be a natural approach. Its win-win propositions reimagine the customer’s time-correction through performance-linked wage increases, operating model, leveraging AI and machine learning to reduce promotions and voluntary attrition.
operational resilience. Customers have really taken to this idea. Will sticky onsite inflation be a structural headwind for your In FY 2023, we signed 29 large operating model transformation margins?
SS: In the short term, higher onsite wage inflation is a headwind in the prior year.
Attrition among women is higher than for men. Why? How are will get adjusted.
you addressing this?
during the pandemic reset the domestic arrangements for annual cost of living increases to prevailing inflation rates. That some women, keeping them from returning to office even after should help mitigate inflation risks in longer term contracts.
everything normalized.
Without the inflation differential, the Rupee may show greater The higher attrition among women in FY 2023 is a setback to our strength than in the past. How will your margins sustain then?
contracts the same way onsite wage inflation has been. So in the of our net hires this year, versus 35.7% in our workforce.
longer term, we should be able to sustain our current margins.
Finally, a question on generative AI. Will the productivity gains employees continue to work from home?
delink revenue growth from headcount addition in the future?
ML: Work from home is definitely more convenient for Can we expect a higher margin as a consequence?
are well networked within the organization can work effectively clients’ expectations around project velocity and throughput.
For a given project team size, clients will expect much higher over the years. That isn’t the case with more junior employees.
as the unit price of a function point falls, we expect volumes to building suffered a lot in these two years.
Then there is the matter of organizational culture. Over half our keep growing, for which we will have to keep hiring new talent.
get acculturated through physical interactions with senior away any time soon.
using generative AI, it is difficult to see how a technology which to our offices during the year.
higher-priced growth and transformation solutions which use doing similar work?
generative AI. Likewise, new software products or platforms ML: Yes, this is another unusual, industry-wide problem.
which use generative AI to deliver superior business outcomes.
The pay disparities will eventually go away for two reasons.
Q&A | 33

Innovating to Improve Crop Yields and Farmer Incomes With climate change, agriculture is increasingly vulnerable Rallis India Ltd, a leading agri-input company, partnered with TCS to extreme weather events, inconsistent rainfall, as well as for the first field deployment of the new platform, to improve increased pest and disease outbreaks. This affects crop yields, the productivity of its hybrid seed production farms, as well as farmer incomes and food security. for internal business planning. Branded Drishti (“Vision”), the platform is used to monitor approximately 130 million hectares To help address these challenges, TCS built a digital platform of agricultural land across India, for various aspects such as to empower the Indian farmer and improve the resilience of crop productivity, soil moisture, early alerts for pest outbreak, the nation’s farming sector. The TCS Digital Platform for Next as well as seasonal weather anomalies and extreme weather Generation Agriculture (DNA) is a state-of-the-art, cloud-based events. The platform has helped Rallis increase the field scouting decision intelligence and crop monitoring system that provides efficiency of its hybrid seed production team, and improved customized, site-specific predictive advisory services to farmers yield by 1 to 2%.
and other players in the food value chain.
TCS DNA uses an innovative `Sky-Earth’ convergence, intelligently largest producer of tea in India, improve the quality and fusing remote-sensing data from earth observation satellites and sustainability of tea leaves procured from small tea growers.
without sacrificing accuracy. Proprietary AI/ML algorithms are and improve quality. This is expected to help small tea growers utilized to analyze the data and provide reliable information and improve their income by 15% and reduce rejections by 20%.
quicker and more informed decisions, optimize production costs and improve their yield.
effective crop management by reducing the risks and minimizing the loss in yield.
Sanjiv Lal MD & CEO
Rallis India Customer Stories | 34

Notice Special Business 4. Appointment of K Krithivasan as Director of the Company Notice is hereby given that the twenty-eighth Annual General To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Meeting of Tata Consultancy Services Limited will be held resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
was appointed by the Board of Directors, based on the transact the following business:
by rotation.” Dividend on Equity Shares for the financial year 2022-23.
offers herself for re-appointment. To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:

6. To approve existing as well as new material related party and the Company, such that the maximum value of the transactions with Related Party Transactions with such parties, in aggregate, does not exceed value as specified under each category, i. Tata Sons Private Limited and/or its subsidiaries, in the explanatory statement, provided that the said (other than Tejas Networks Limited and/or its Transaction(s)/Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) subsidiaries) shall be carried out at in the ordinary course of business and in respect of transactions with related parties under ii. Joint Ventures, Associate Companies of Tata Sons Section 2(76) of the Act, are at arm’s length basis.” Private Limited and their subsidiaries and Joint Ventures & Associate Companies of subsidiaries of “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of Directors of the Tata Sons Private Limited (excluding Tata Motors Company (hereinafter referred to as ‘Board’ which term Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their shall be deemed to include the Audit Committee of the subsidiaries) Company and any duly constituted/ to be constituted Committee of Directors thereof to exercise its powers iii. Tejas Networks Limited and/or its subsidiaries including powers conferred under this resolution) be and is hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters and iv. Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited things as it may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to and/or their subsidiaries take all such steps as may be required in this connection v. Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly including finalizing and executing necessary documents, owned subsidiaries) contract(s), scheme(s), agreement(s) and such other documents as may be required, seeking all necessary To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following approvals to give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: of the Company and settling all such issues, questions, difficulties or doubts whatsoever that may arise and to take “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Regulation all such decisions from powers herein conferred to, without 23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India being required to seek further consent or approval of the (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Members and that the Members shall be deemed to have Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), as given their approval thereto expressly by the authority of amended from time to time, the applicable provisions of this resolution.” the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) read with Rules made thereunder, other applicable laws/statutory provisions, “RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken by the Board in if any, (including any statutory modification(s) or connection with any matter referred to or contemplated in amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for the time this resolution, be and are hereby approved, ratified and being in force), the Company’s Policy on Related Party confirmed in all respects.” Transactions, and subject to such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) as may be necessary from time to time Notes and basis the approval and recommendation of the Audit 1. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has vide its Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company, General Circular Nos. 14/2020 dated April 8, 2020 and the approval of the Members of the Company be and 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, in relation to “Clarification is hereby accorded to the Company to enter/continue on passing of ordinary and special resolutions by to enter into Material Related Party Transaction(s)/ companies under the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) (whether by made thereunder on account of the threat posed by way of an individual transaction or transaction taken COVID-19”, General Circular Nos. 20/2020 dated together or series of transactions or otherwise) with May 5, 2020, and subsequent circulars issued in this regard, entities falling within the definition of ‘Related Party’ the latest being 10/2022 dated December 28, 2022 in under Section 2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) relation to “Clarification on holding of annual general of the SEBI Listing Regulations, for each of the financial meeting (AGM) through Video Conferencing (VC) or Other years (“FY”) in the course of (a) availing and rendering of Audio Visual Means (OAVM)”, (collectively referred to as IT services/ITeS/consulting service(s); (b) reimbursement “MCA Circulars”) permitted the holding of the Annual of expenses including towards availing/providing for General Meeting (“AGM”) through VC/OAVM, without the sharing/usage of each other’s resources viz. employees, physical presence of the Members at a common venue.
office of the Company shall be deemed to be the venue for equipment to meet its business objectives/requirements;
the AGM.

Notice, is annexed hereto. Further, the relevant details 4. Pursuant to the provisions of the Act, a Member entitled to with respect to Item Nos. 3 and 4 pursuant to Regulation attend and vote at the AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy 36(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure to attend and vote on his/her behalf and the proxy need Requirements) Regulations, 2015 not be a Member of the Company. Since this AGM is being (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial Standard on held pursuant to the MCA Circulars through VC/OAVM, General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company physical attendance of Members has been dispensed with.
annexed. Proxy Form, Attendance Slip and route map of AGM are not annexed to this Notice.
than individuals, HUFs, NRIs etc.) can also upload their If your e-mail address is not registered with the Company/ Board Resolution/Power of Attorney/Authority Letter, etc.
Depositories, you may register on or before 5:00 p.m. (IST) by clicking on “Upload Board Resolution/Authority Letter” on Thursday, June 22, 2023 to receive this Notice of the displayed under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
final dividend for the financial year ended March 31, 2023, a) Click on the URL: https://on.tcs.com/EmailRegn. if approved at the AGM.
c) Enter DP and Client ID (if shares held in electronic on Monday, July 3, 2023, as under:
Limited (CDSL), collectively “Depositories”, as of end of d) Enter Mobile number and e-mail ID.
day on Thursday, June 15, 2023.
ii. To all Members in respect of shares held in physical sent on mobile number and e-mail ID.
transposition requests lodged with the Company as of f) Enter OTP received on mobile number and e-mail ID.
the close of business hours on Thursday, June 15, 2023.
g) Click on Submit button.
pertaining to the current event. details such as, name of the bank and branch details, bank account number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc.
Registrar and Transfer Agents (RTA) in prescribed Form and on the website of NSDL https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.

ISR-1 and other forms pursuant to SEBI Circular No. 13. In case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD-PoD-1/P/CIR/2023/37 dated as the first holder in the order of names as per the Register March 16, 2023. In the absence of any of the required of Members of the Company as on the cut-off date will be documents in a folio, on or after October 1, 2023, entitled to vote during the AGM.
Members may also refer to Frequently Asked are requested to write to the Company on or before Questions (“FAQs”) on Company’s website June 28, 2023 through e-mail on investor.relations@tcs.com.
https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ. The same will be replied by the Company suitably.
Form ISR – 4, the format of which is available on the transferred to IEPF, may contact the Company or TCPL and Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ and on submit the required documents for issue of Entitlement Letter.
Limited (“TCPL”) at https://www.tcplindia.co.in/. It may be required documents and file the IEPF-5 form for claiming noted that any service request can be processed only after the dividend and/or shares available on www.iepf.gov.in.
which is a part of this report and FAQ of investor page on
10. In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, Company’s website https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
dematerialized form. In view of the same and to eliminate counted for the purpose of determining the quorum under all risks associated with physical shares and avail various Section 103 of the Act.
17. Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend income will dematerialize the shares held by them in physical form.
and the Company is required to deduct tax at source from in this regard.
dividend paid to shareholders at the prescribed rates.
11. Members holding shares in physical form, in identical order For the prescribed rates for various categories, please refer of names, in more than one folio are requested to send to to the Finance Act, 2020 and the amendments thereof.
with the share certificates along with the requisite KYC with the DPs (if shares held in dematerialized form) and Documents for consolidating their holdings in one folio. the Company/TCPL (if shares are held in physical form).
A Resident individual shareholder with PAN and whose processed in dematerialized form.
12. As per the provisions of Section 72 of the Act, the facility to tax or who is not liable to pay income tax, as the case for making nomination is available for the Members in may be, can submit a yearly declaration in Form No.
the same by submitting Form No. SH-13. If a Member or upload the documents on https://on.tcs.com/FormsRegn desires to opt out or cancel the earlier nomination and by 11:59 p.m. (IST) on Wednesday, June 7, 2023.
com/IR-FAQ. Members are requested to submit the said will be deducted at a higher rate prescribed under Section details to their DP in case the shares are held by them in 206AA or 206AB of the Income-tax Act, as applicable.
Non-resident shareholders [including Foreign Institutional in physical form.

country of tax residence, subject to providing necessary Jigyasa Ved (Membership No. FCS 6488) of documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment and Beneficial Parikh & Associates, Company Secretaries as the Ownership Declaration, Tax Residency Certificate, Form Scrutinizer to scrutinize the e-voting process in a 10F, any other document which may be required to avail fair and transparent manner.
by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2324@tcplindia.co.in or to their shares in the paid-up equity share capital of upload the documents on https://on.tcs.com/FormsRegn. the Company as on the cut-off date.
and non-individual shareholders, who acquires Wednesday, June 7, 2023.
electronically, through the e-voting services vii. The details of the process and manner for remote provided by NSDL, on all the resolutions set forth e-voting are explained herein below:
given herein below. The way to vote electronically on NSDL e-voting system consists of “Two Steps” which are mentioned below:
Monday, June 26, 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) and ends Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system on Wednesday, June 28, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST).
During this period, Members holding shares Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting either in physical form or in dematerialized form, system.
Details on Step 1 are mentioned below may cast their vote electronically.
CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, 2020 on “e-voting June 28, 2023 or e-voting during the AGM.
accounts/websites of Depositories/DPs to increase the during the AGM.
process. Shareholders are advised to update their mobile resolution again.
number and e-mail ID with their DPs to access e-voting iv. The Board of Directors has appointed P N Parikh facility.

Login method for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode is given below:
If you are already registered, follow the below steps mode with NSDL.
1. Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
3. A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services.
4. C lick on “Access to e-voting” appearing on the left-hand side under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting page.
during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
If you are not registered, follow the below steps a. Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.
b. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://on.tcs.com/NSDLRegn.
c. Please follow steps given in points 1-5.
1. Open web browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile phone.
2. O nce the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
C. Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.

Type of shareholders Login Method Individual Shareholders holding 1. Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest, they can login through their securities in dematerialized User ID and Password. Option will be made available to reach e-voting page without mode with CDSL any further authentication. The URL for users to login to Easi/Easiest are https://on.tcs.com/CDSLRegn or www.cdslindia.com and click on login and select MyEasi.
2. After successful login of Easi/Easiest the user will be also able to see the e-voting menu.
vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
the demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESP i.e. NSDL where the e-voting is in progress.
Individual Shareholders 1. You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP (holding securities in demat registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility.
e-voting option, you will be redirected to NSDL/CDSL Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User ID and Forgot Password option available at respective websites.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
II) Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than Individual shareholders holding securities in demat mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
1. Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by clicking the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2. Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/ Member’ section.
3. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
existing IDeAS login. Once you log-in to NSDL eservices after using your login credentials, click on e-voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.

5. Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Demat Your User ID is:
Individual shareholders are given below: holding shares in physical mode) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
b) If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the account number/folio number, PAN, name and first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial registered address.
NSDL. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, d) Members can also use the OTP based login for you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the casting the votes on the e-voting system of NSDL.
system will force you to change your password.
8. After entering your password, tick on Agree to “Terms c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’? and Conditions” by selecting on the check box.
(i) If your e-mail ID is registered in your 9. Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
‘initial password’ is communicated to you on e-voting will open.
you from NSDL in your mailbox from Details on Step 2 are given below:
open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-voting the .pdf file. system?
of client ID for CDSL account or folio number shares and whose voting cycle and general meeting is for shares held in physical form. The .pdf in active status.
2. Select “EVEN” of Company, which is 123989 for which password’.
address with the Company/Depository, Meeting. For joining virtual meeting, you need to click please follow instructions mentioned below on “VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join Meeting”.
in this notice.
3. Now you are ready for e-voting as the voting page opens.
7. If you are unable to retrieve or have not received the “Initial password” or have forgotten your password:
4. Cast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e.
are holding shares in your demat account with on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when prompted.
NSDL or CDSL) option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.

5. Upon confirmation, the message “Vote cast Further Members can also use the OTP based login for successfully” will be displayed and you will receive logging into the e-voting system of NSDL.
2. Facility of joining the AGM through VC/OAVM shall mobile number.
open 30 minutes before the time scheduled for the
6. You can also take the printout of the votes cast by you AGM.
3. Members who need assistance before or during the page.
Amit Vishal, Assistant Vice President – NSDL at not be allowed to modify your vote.
DP ID and Client ID/Folio number, PAN, mobile unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password.
In such an event, you will need to go through the 2023 (9:00 a.m. IST) to June 25, 2023 (5:00 p.m. IST).
speaker will only be allowed to express their views/ask https://www.evoting.nsdl.com to reset the password.
2. In case of any queries related to e-voting, you may right to restrict the number of speakers depending on refer the Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) the availability of time for the AGM.
client master or copy of Consolidated Account within the time stipulated under the applicable laws.
to National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE of the AGM are mentioned in point number 18(A).
Limited, where the shares of the Company are listed.
B. INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING THE AGM By order of the Board of Directors
THROUGH VC/OAVM ARE AS UNDER
1. Members will be able to attend the AGM through Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde VC/OAVM or view the live webcast of AGM provided Company Secretary by NSDL at https://www.evoting.nsdl.com following Membership No. ACS 7016 the steps mentioned above for login to NSDL e-voting Mumbai, April 12, 2023 system. After successful login, you can see VC/OAVM link placed under Join meeting menu against company Registered Office:
9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, placed under “Join Meeting” menu.
Mumbai 400 021 CIN: L22210MH1995PLC084781
Members who do not have the User ID and Password Tel: +91 22 6778 9595 for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and Email: investor.relations@tcs.com Password may retrieve the same by following the Website: www.tcs.com remote e-voting instructions mentioned in the Notice.

Explanatory Statement Board in connection with and in the best interests of the As required by Section 102 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”), business of the Company and the business of one or more the following explanatory statement sets out all material facts of its associated companies and/or subsidiaries, including relating to the business mentioned under Item Nos. 4 to 6 of the performing duties as assigned to the CEO and MD from accompanying Notice: time to time by serving on the Boards of such associated companies and/or subsidiaries or any other executive body Item Nos. 4 and 5 or any committee of such a company.
June 1, 2023. The Board, at the same meeting, also appointed maximum of ₹16,00,000 per month.
General Meeting of the Company, and is eligible for appointment Company’s performance as well, within the said as a Director. The Company has received a notice in writing from maximum amount.
K Krithivasan has also confirmed that he is not disqualified from Details of Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances are as being appointed as Director, in terms of the provisions of Section follows:
bearing the cost of repairs, maintenance, society Company.
customer relationships and mindshare as well as market provided by the Company).
ii. Hospitalisation and major medical expenses, transformation journeys and technology strategies.
car facility, telecommunication facility and housing loan facility as per Rules of the Company.
leave travel concession/allowance and other to this Notice.
allowances/personal accident insurance/club membership fees.
given below: Fund or Annuity Fund and Gratuity Fund as per the Rules of the Company.
The appointment as CEO and MD is for a period of five the Rules of the Company.
years with effect from June 1, 2023.

stipulated in Section 197 of the Act. The specific b. in the event of any serious repeated or amount payable to the CEO and MD will be based continuing breach (after prior warning) or on his performance as evaluated by the Board or non-observance by the CEO and MD of any of the NRC and approved by the Board and will be the stipulations contained in the Agreement payable annually after the annual accounts have been v. Upon the termination by whatever means of the approved by the Board of Directors and adopted by CEO and MD’s employment:
members.
Perquisites, Allowances and Commission subject to connected with the Company.
such further approvals as may be required.
and Officers’ Liability Insurance policy and pay the or associated companies.
applicable to the CEO and MD, unless specifically F. Other terms of Appointment provided otherwise.
i. The CEO and MD shall not become interested maintenance of confidentiality.
discretion deem fit, irrespective of the limits employee of the Company.
such manner as may be agreed to between the absolute discretion decide to continue him as a Board and the CEO and MD, subject to such Director or an employee of the Company.
approvals as may be required.
paying six months’ remuneration in lieu thereof. of the CEO and MD as specified above are now being placed before the Members for their approval.
at Item Nos. 4 and 5 as an Ordinary Resolutions for payment in lieu of notice:
approval of the Members.
company to which he is required to render and 5 of the Notice.

Item No. 6 Pursuant to the amended Regulation 23 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘‘SEBI Listing Regulations’’), the threshold limit for determination of material Related Party Transactions is the lower of ₹1,000 crores (Rupees One thousand crores) or 10% (ten percent) of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial statements of the listed entity and such material related party transactions exceeding the limits, would require prior approval of Members by means of an ordinary resolution.
course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the “Tata Group”. The transactions that the Company has had with its related parties for the last three years are given below:

in the resolution. All the contracts/arrangements and the transactions with “related parties” are reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. Further, the transactions that require testing of arm’s length pricing are reviewed by our statutory auditors for being at arm’s length.
Sr. Description Particulars No.
(c) reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services (d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.

Sr. Description Particulars No.
intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:
• Nature of indebtedness;
(c) reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services (d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.

Sr. No. Description Particulars 4. Nature, duration/tenure, material Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that terms, monetary value and particulars are generally prevalent in the industry segments that the Company operates of contract/arrangement in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party subject to a maximum of 1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum through contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of 2.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum 5. Particulars of the proposed transaction Same as Sr. No. 3 6. Tenure of the transaction Contracts/arrangements with a duration upto 5 years 7. Value of the proposed transaction 1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with a single related party subject to a cumulative threshold of 2.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across all related parties in this category 8. Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated 1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum with turnover, for the immediately preceding single related party financial year, that is represented by the 2.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum across value of the proposed transaction all related parties 9. Justification of the proposed transaction The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their business 10. Details of the valuation report or All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are external party report (if any) enclosed reviewed for arm’s length testing internally and by Statutory Auditors with the Notice 11. Name of the Director or Key Managerial N Chandrasekaran, N G Subramaniam and Aarthi Subramanian Personnel, who is related 12. Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given A Source of funds Not Applicable B In case any financial indebtedness Not Applicable is incurred to make or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:
• Nature of indebtedness;

iii. Tejas Networks Limited and/or its subsidiaries Sr. No. Description Particulars 1. Name of the related party Tejas Networks Limited and/or its subsidiaries (please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries) 2. Nature of relationship [including nature Tejas Networks Limited is a subsidiary of Tata Sons Private Limited and hence of its interest (financial or otherwise)] related party under Section 2(76) of the Act of Tata Sons Private Limited 3. Type of the proposed transaction (a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such related areas (b) Supply of hardware and software (c) reimbursement of expenses (d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
8. Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated Value of the proposed transaction represents 6.6 percent of the consolidated turnover, for the immediately preceding turnover of the Company for FY 2023.
financial year, that is represented by the value of the proposed transaction.
intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:
• Nature of indebtedness;
deposits, advances or investment made to facilitate procurement of equipment, on the back of similar unsecured or given interest-free mobilization advance received from the end-customer.

Sr. No. Description Particulars D The purpose for which the funds will be Same as Sr. No. 12 C utilized by the ultimate beneficiary of such funds pursuant to the RPT 13. Any other relevant information All important information forms part of the statement setting out material facts, pursuant to Section 102(1) of the Act, forming part of this Notice iv. Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their subsidiaries Sr. No. Description Particulars 1. Name of the related party Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or their subsidiaries (please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries) 2. Nature of relationship [including nature Tata Motors Limited is an associate of Tata Sons Private Limited. Jaguar Land of its interest (financial or otherwise)] Rover Limited is a subsidiary of Tata Motors Limited and hence related party as per SEBI Listing regulations 3. Type of the proposed transaction (a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such related areas (b) Supply of hardware and software (c) Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services (d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
financial year, that is represented by the value of the proposed transaction.

Sr. No. Description Particulars B In case any financial indebtedness Not Applicable is incurred to make or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:
• Nature of indebtedness;
(c) Reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services (d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.

Sr. No. Description Particulars 8. Percentage of TCS’s annual consolidated 1.1 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company with single related turnover, for the immediately preceding party financial year, that is represented by the 2.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related value of the proposed transaction. parties (and for a RPT involving a subsidiary, Up to 50 percent of respective subsidiary turnover such percentage calculated on the basis of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on a standalone basis shall be additionally provided) 9. Justification of the proposed transaction As per global network delivery model of TCS, the subsidiaries operating in respective countries enters into the contracts from customers and outsource the service delivery to the parent company TCS Limited. Solutions framework along with trained domain experts of TCS Limited ensure delivery of high quality and certainty to end-customers at respective countries 10. Details of the valuation report or All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are external party report (if any) enclosed reviewed for arm’s length testing by compliance team and Statutory Auditors with the Notice 11. Name of the Director or Key Managerial Person/s holding position of Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Personnel, who is related and/or Executive Director and/or Chief Operating Officer 12. Following additional disclosures to be made in case of loans, inter-corporate deposits, advances or investments made or given A Source of funds Not Applicable B In case any financial indebtedness Not Applicable is incurred to make or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:
• Nature of indebtedness;
None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel of the Company or its respective relatives, other than as mentioned above, is concerned or interested, in the resolution.
The said transaction(s)/contract(s)/arrangement(s) have been recommended by the Audit Committee and Board of Directors of the Company for consideration and approval by the Members.
It is pertinent to note that no related party shall vote to approve this Resolution whether the entity is a related party to the particular transaction or not.

Annexure A Details of Directors seeking appointment/re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting (In pursuance of Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard – 2 on General Meetings) Particulars Aarthi Subramanian K Krithivasan DIN 07121802 10106739
Date of Birth and Age June 26, 1967 (55 years) May 5, 1964 (58 years) Date of Appointment March 12, 2015 June 1, 2023 Qualifications • B. Tech in Computer Science • B achelor’s Degree in Mechanical • Master’s Degree in Engineering Engineering Management • M aster’s Degree in Industrial and Management Engineering Expertise in specific functional areas Wide experience in Information Technology Wide experience in Information Technology Terms and Conditions of Not Applicable Appointed as the CEO and MD for a period of appointment/re- appointment five years w.e.f. from June 1, 2023.
the resolution and explanatory statement annexed to this notice.

Particulars Aarthi Subramanian K Krithivasan Tata UniStore Limited • Internal Audit Committee Tata Industries Limited • Nomination and Remuneration Committee • Risk Management Committee* Tata Digital Private Limited • Nomination and Remuneration Committee • Corporate Social Responsibility Committee* Number of Equity Shares held in the 5,600 11,232 Company *Chairperson For other details such as number of meetings of the board attended during the year, remuneration drawn and relationship with other directors and key managerial personnel, in respect of the above Directors, please refer to the corporate governance report which is a part of this report.
Sr. Name No.
12 Tata Communications (Bermuda) Limited 13 Tata Communications (Netherlands) B.V.
14 Tata Communications (Hong Kong) Limited 15 ITXC IP Holdings S.A.R.L.
16 Tata Communications (America) Inc.
18 Tata Communications (Canada) Limited 19 TATA COMMUNICATIONS (BELGIUM) SRL
20 Tata Communications (Italy) SRL 21 Tata Communications (Portugal) Unipessoal LDA 22 Tata Communications (France) SAS 23 Tata Communications (Nordic) AS 24 Tata Communications (Guam) L.L.C.

Sr. Name No.
27 Tata Communications SVCS Pte Ltd 28 Tata Communications (Poland) SP.Z.O.O.
29 Tata Communications (Japan) KK.
40 Tata Communications (Thailand) Limited 41 Tata Communications (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
42 Tata Communications Transformation Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd 43 Tata Communications (Spain) S.L.
46 Tata Communications (South Korea) Limited 47 Tata Communications Transformation Services (Hungary) Kft.
54 Tata Communications (New Zealand) Limited 55 Tata Communications MOVE B.V.
56 Tata Communications MOVE Nederland B.V.
57 MuCoso B.V.
58 NetFoundry Inc.
71 Ecofirst Services Limited 72 TCE QSTP-LLC

Sr. Name No.

Sr. Name No.
148 TitanX Holding AB 149 TitanX Engine Cooling Inc.
150 TitanX Engine Cooling Kunshan Co. Ltd.

Sr. Name No.
186 Tata International Canada Limited 187 Newshelf 1369 Pty Ltd.
189 AFCL Ghana Limited 190 AFCL Premium Services Ltd.

Sr. Name No.
Sr. Name No.
3 Ncourage Social Enterprise Foundation 4 Valley Holdings Inc.
5 Tata Chemicals North America Inc.
6 Tata Chemicals (Soda Ash) Partners 7 TCSAP LLC
8 Homefield Pvt. UK Limited 9 TCE Group Limited 10 Tata Chemicals Africa Holdings Limited 11 Natrium Holdings Limited 12 Tata Chemicals Europe Limited 13 Winnington CHP Limited 14 Brunner Mond Group Limited 15 Tata Chemicals Magadi Limited 16 Northwich Resource Management Limited 17 Gusiute Holdings (UK) Limited 18 British Salt Limited 19 Cheshire Salt Holdings Limited 20 Cheshire Salt Limited 21 Brinefield Storage Limited 22 Cheshire Cavity Storage 2 Limited 23 New Cheshire Salt Works Limited 24 Tata Chemicals International Pte. Limited 25 Tata Chemicals (South Africa) Proprietary Limited 26 Magadi Railway Company Limited 27 Alcad 28 TC (Soda Ash) Partners Holdings 29 Tata Consumer Products Limited 30 Tata Consumer Products UK Group Ltd.
31 Tata Global Beverages Holdings Limited 32 Tata Global Beverages Services Ltd.

Sr. Name No.
33 Tata Consumer Products GB Ltd.
34 Tata Consumer Products Overseas Holdings Ltd.
35 Tata Global Beverages Overseas Ltd.
36 Lyons Tetley Ltd.
37 Drassington Ltd.
38 Teapigs Ltd.
39 Teapigs US LLC 40 Stansand Ltd.
41 Stansand (Brokers) Ltd.
42 Stansand (Africa) Ltd.
43 Stansand (Central Africa) Ltd.
44 Tata Consumer Products Polska sp.zo.o 45 Tata Consumer Products US Holdings Inc.
46 Tata Waters LLC 47 Tetley USA Inc.
48 Good Earth Corporation 49 Good Earth Teas Inc.
50 Tata Consumer Products Canada Inc.
51 Tata Consumer Products Australia Pty Ltd.
52 Earth Rules Pty Ltd.
53 Tata Global Beverages Investments Ltd.
54 Campestres Holdings Ltd.
55 Kahutara Holdings Ltd.
56 Suntyco Holding Ltd.
57 Onomento Co Ltd.
58 Tata Consumer Products Capital Ltd.
59 Tata Coffee Ltd.
60 Consolidated Coffee Inc.
61 Tata Coffee Vietnam Company Ltd.
62 Eight O’Clock Holdings Inc.
63 Eight O’Clock Coffee Company.
64 Tata Tea Extractions Inc.
65 Tata Tea Holdings Private Ltd.
66 NourishCo Beverages Ltd.
68 Tata SmartFoodz Limited 69 TRIL Constructions Ltd.
73 Tata Steel Limited 74 ABJA Investment Co. Pte. Ltd.
76 Tata Steel Special Economic Zone Limited 77 Indian Steel & Wire Products Ltd.
83 Tata Steel Mining Limited 84 Tata Korf Engineering Services Ltd.

Sr. Name No.
85 Tata Metaliks Ltd.
86 Tata Steel Long Products Limited 87 T Steel Holdings Pte. Ltd.
88 T S Global Holdings Pte Ltd.
89 Orchid Netherlands (No.1) B.V.
90 &Eastern Steel Fabricators Philippines, Inc.
91 The Siam Industrial Wire Company Ltd.
92 TSN Wires Co., Ltd.
97 British Steel Directors (Nominees) Limited 98 British Steel Nederland International B.V.
113 Corus International Limited 114 Corus International Romania SRL.
122 Degels GmbH 123 Demka B.V.
132 Hille & Muller GmbH 133 Hille & Muller USA Inc.
134 Hoogovens USA Inc.
135 Huizenbezit “Breesaap” B.V.

Sr. Name No.
137 Layde Steel S.L.
143 Orb Electrical Steels Limited 144 Oremco Inc.
145 Plated Strip (International) Limited 146 Rafferty-Brown Steel Co Inc Of Conn.
147 Runmega Limited 148 S A B Profiel B.V.
150 Service Center Gelsenkirchen GmbH 151 Service Centre Maastricht B.V.
152 Societe Europeenne De Galvanisation (Segal) Sa 153 Staalverwerking en Handel B.V.
156 Swinden Housing Association Limited 157 Tata Steel Belgium Packaging Steels N.V.
158 Tata Steel Belgium Services N.V.
182 Tata Steel Nederland Tubes BV 183 Tata Steel Netherlands Holdings B.V.

Sr. Name No.
189 Tata Steel USA Inc.
191 Thomas Processing Company 192 Thomas Steel Strip Corp.
207 The Siam Iron and Steel (2001) Company Limited 208 T S Global Procurement Company Pte. Ltd.
209 Tata Steel International (Shanghai) Ltd.
210 TS Asia (Hong Kong) Ltd.
220 Tata Steel Support Services Limited 221 Bhushan Steel (South) Ltd.
222 Tata Steel Technical Services Limited 223 Bhushan Steel (Australia) PTY Ltd.
224 Bowen Energy PTY Ltd.
225 Bowen Coal PTY Ltd.
226 Bowen Consolidated PTY Ltd.
231 S & T Mining Company Limited 232 Medica TS Hospital Pvt. Ltd.

Sr. Name No.
250 Qurio Hospitality Private Limited 251 United Overseas Holdings Inc.
255 Piem International (HK) Limited 256 IHOCO BV.

Sr. Name No.
301 PT Sumber Energi Andalan TBK 302 Tata Power International Pte. Ltd.
334 TP Atharva Solar Limited 335 TP VIVAGREEN LIMITED
336 TP VARDHAMAN SURYA LIMITED

Sr. Name No.
346 Voltas Limited 347 Voltas Netherlands B.V.
348 Lalbuksh Voltas Engineering Services & Trading L.L.C.
349 Weathermaker FZE 350 Saudi Ensas Company for Engineering Services W.L.L.
351 Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited 352 Voltas Qatar W.L.L.
356 Westerwork Engineers Limited 357 HI-Volt Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.
393 TPL INFRA PROJECTS (BRAZIL) PROJETOS DE INFRAESTRUTURA E ENGENHARIA LTDA 394 Anderson Diagnostic Services Pvt. Ltd.

Sr. Name No.
409 Cellcure Cancer Centre Private Limited 410 Tata Overseas Development Co. Ltd.
411 Inter Consumer Goods AG 412 Tata International UK Ltd.

Sr. Name No.
456 Ferguson Place (Proprietary) Limited 457 Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd.
Sr. Name No.
Sr. Name No.
5 TML Holdings Pte. Limited 6 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A.
7 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocerries Maghreb SA 8 Trilix S.r.l.

Sr. Name No.
28 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV 29 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veículos e Peças, Lda.
54 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o 55 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte. Ltd.
63 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited 64 Jaguar Land Rover Servicios México, S.A. de C.V.
65 Jaguar Land Rover México, S.A.P.I. de C.V.
69 Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited 70 INCAT International Plc.

Sr. Name No.
74 Tata Technologies Inc.
75 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Sr. Name No.
4 MP Online Limited 5 Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.

Directors’ Report To the Members, The Directors present this Integrated Annual Report of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the Company or TCS) along with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2023.
The consolidated performance of the Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
2022-23 2021-22 2022-23 2021-22 (FY 2023) (FY 2022) (FY 2023) (FY 2022)
Revenue from operations 1,90,354 1,60,341 2,25,458 1,91,754 Other income 5,328 7,486 3,449 4,018 Total income 1,95,682 1,67,827 2,28,907 1,95,772 Expenses Operating expenditure 1,39,357 1,14,096 1,66,199 1,38,697 Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,940 3,522 5,022 4,604 Total expenses 1,43,297 1,17,618 1,71,221 1,43,301 Profit before finance costs and tax 52,385 50,209 57,686 52,471 Finance costs 695 486 779 784 Profit before tax 51,690 49,723 56,907 51,687 Tax expense 12,584 11,536 14,604 13,238 Profit for the year 39,106 38,187 42,303 38,449 Attributable to:
the Members, would involve a cash outflow of financial statements of the Company as at ₹8,782 crore. The total shareholders payout excluding the December 31, 2021, respectively.
of the Company. Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) is available on the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/Dividend.

3. Transfer to reserves tenth consecutive year, with an overall satisfaction score of The closing balance of the retained earnings of the 83 percent compared to the industry average of Company for FY 2023, after all appropriation and 75 percent.
adjustments was ₹62,228 crore.
Achievement Competition; Customer Experience Team of The PAT attributable to shareholders for FY 2023 was the Year Award by Global Sourcing Association – UK.
year’s revenue of ₹1,60,341 crore in FY 2022. The PAT joint venture companies within the meaning of Section 2(6) attributable to shareholders in FY 2023 was ₹39,106 crore of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”).
5. Quality initiatives in Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. (TCS China) The Company continues to strengthen its commitment thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary.
experience, best-in-class service management, robust Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS was liquidated information security and privacy practices and mature effective July 27, 2022.
business continuity management.
The relevance of TCS’ integrated Quality Management ownership interest in TCS Financial Solutions (Beijing) Co., System (iQMS™) is continually evaluated for new service Ltd. from TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited.
Form No. AOC-1 is attached to the financial statements of TCS has successfully achieved Maturity Level 5 in CMMI the Company.
following globally recognized standards: ISO 9001:2015 subsidiaries, are available on the Company’s website at (Quality Management), ISO 20000-1:2018 (IT Service https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations.
Controls for Cloud Services), ISO 27018:2019 (Protection confirm that:
applicable accounting standards have been followed and TL 9000–SV R6.2/R5.7 (Telecom Industry).
and there are no material departures;
rankings in third party surveys as well. TCS achieved the top of the profit of the Company for that period;

iii. They have taken proper and sufficient care Aarthi Subramanian (DIN 07121802) retires by rotation and for the maintenance of adequate accounting being eligible, offers herself for re-appointment.
and for preventing and detecting fraud and other appointment/re-appointment along with other required irregularities; details forms part of the Notice.
the circumstances affecting their status as independent vi. They have devised proper systems to ensure directors of the Company.
or transactions with the Company, other than sitting fees, Based on the framework of internal financial controls commission and reimbursement of expenses, if any.
reviews performed by management and the relevant board Key Managerial Personnel of the Company as on committees, including the audit committee, the Board March 31, 2023.
controls were adequate and effective during FY 2023. 9. Number of meetings of the Board Six meetings of the Board were held during the year.
As on March 31, 2023, the Company has nine Directors Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this comprising of two Executive Directors and seven report.
re-appointment of Rajesh Gopinathan (DIN 06365813) and directors pursuant to the provisions of the Act and N G Subramaniam (DIN 07006215) as the CEO and MD and SEBI Listing Regulations.
COO and ED, respectively.
(DIN 03611983) as an Independent Director. In the opinion effectiveness of board processes, information and of the Board, he is a person of integrity, fulfils requisite functioning, etc.
Rajesh Gopinathan would relinquish his position of CEO on the basis of criteria such as the composition of and MD of the Company with effect from June 1, 2023. The committees, effectiveness of committee meetings, etc.
1, 2023 for a period of five years, subject to approval of the Company was evaluated, taking into account the views Members at the ensuing Annual General Meeting (AGM). of executive directors and non-executive directors.

meetings like preparedness on the issues to be discussed, 16. Auditor’s report and Secretarial audit report meaningful and constructive contribution and inputs The statutory auditor’s report and the secretarial auditor’s in meetings, etc. report do not contain any qualifications, reservations, or adverse remarks or disclaimer. Secretarial audit report At the board meeting that followed the meeting of the is attached to this report as Annexure II.
Performance evaluation of independent directors was done Risk Management Committee to frame, implement and by the entire Board, excluding the independent director monitor the risk management plan for the Company.
being evaluated.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing
11. Policy on directors’ appointment and remuneration and the risk management plan and ensuring its effectiveness.
available on the Company’s website at by the businesses and functions are systematically https://on.tcs.com/ApptDirectors. addressed through mitigating actions on a continuing basis.
The policy on remuneration and other matters provided in policy has been covered in the Management Discussion and Section 178(3) of the Act has been disclosed Analysis, which forms part of this report.
requirements of Section 135 of the Act. concerns about unethical behaviour. This Policy is available on the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP.
the format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate Social as per Section 186 of the Act by the Company, have been Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014. This Policy is available on disclosed in the financial statements.
13. Internal financial control systems and their adequacy of this report.
Analysis, which is a part of this report. seeking approval of the shareholders on material related party transactions is being placed at the AGM.
15. Auditors https://on.tcs.com/annualreturn-22-23.
No.101248W/W-100022) as Statutory Auditors of the Rule 5 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration Company to hold office for a period of five years from the of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014:
conclusion of that AGM till the conclusion of the thirty- second AGM to be held in the year 2027.

a. The ratio of the remuneration of each director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company and percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary in the financial year:
the financial year Non-executive Directors:
Don Callahan 37.23 10.76 Executive Directors:
N G Subramaniam 345.68 14.08 Chief Financial Officer:
Samir Seksaria - $ Company Secretary:
* As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the Company and hence not stated.
# In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata Company and hence not stated.
$ Remuneration received in FY 2023 is not comparable with remuneration received in FY 2022 (for part of the year) and hence not stated.
of the Act read with Rule 5(2) and 5(3) of the Company are 6,14,795.
d. The average annual increase was in the range of separate annexure forming part of this report.
6-9 percent, after accounting for promotions and to the Members excluding the aforesaid annexure.
other event based compensation revisions.
is open for inspection and any Member interested varying from 1.5 to 5.5 percent.
in obtaining a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary.
upon aspects such as organisation’s strategy, governance was 13.58 percent.
intellectual capital, human capital, social capital and natural the remuneration policy of the Company.
capital.

24. Disclosure requirements agreements (PPA). The renewable energy procurement As per SEBI Listing Regulations, the Corporate Governance has resulted in an increase in renewable energy use to Report with the Auditors’ Certificate thereon, and the 55.2 percent of total energy use.
of which 14 campuses were included in FY 2023 ensuring The BRSR indicates the Company’s performance against our commitment to energy conservation and management.
The Company has not accepted any deposits from public and inclusion of 22 locations globally in the reporting and as such, no amount on account of principal or interest boundary during the current year.
26. Conservation of energy, technology absorption, foreign America, UK & Ireland**, Latin America, Middle East & exchange earnings and outgo Africa regions during the reporting year.
and climate action which is reaffirmed in its Environmental the Company towards achieving its carbon target to Sustainability policy become net zero by 2030.
(https://on.tcs.com/Environmental-Sustainability).
conditioning (HVAC) systems, uninterruptible power supply Network(COIN)™ adopted many initiatives to address (UPS), LEDs, motors, chillers and Energy Monitoring and customer needs and create impact.
consolidation and optimization to reduce the carbon applications in batteries, catalysis and industrial effluents.
reduction in industries. Generative Design research and the equipment it procures.
The roof top solar photo voltaic installations this year and formulations, and manufacturing processes.

research; AI for cybersecurity, privacy enabled service The Company’s Pace Ports™ are spaces that connect operations, privacy preserving biometrics and trustworthy customers to all of TCS’ organizational capabilities AI initiatives are in progress. Research in AI was oriented in innovation, technology, and industry expertise.
around the latest in Generative Large Language Models, The Company inaugurated two Pace Ports this year:
optimisation problems and other core AI problems. Boots launched an innovation hub, INNOVATE Powered by TCS Pace™, at the Boots Nottingham headquarters.
on on-board computing for remote sensing satellites partnership with The National Robotarium, UK’s largest to reduce data and bandwidth for ground communication; and most advanced AI and robotics research centre.
it is also leveraging neuromorphic computing for low TCS launched a Quantum Computing Lab on AWS.
and neuromorphic computing. part in TCS’ ecosystem strategy, increasing its innovation footprint, and winning deals.
TCS deepened its expertise in heterogeneous computing.
while minimizing energy consumption and costs. its focus on energy, circularity, and development related Quantum computing, resilience on cloud with data projects. These have won appreciation from analysts.
residency, compliance and security on cloud are other TCS’ Clever Energy was launched on Google Cloud.
areas of focus. TCS’ futuristic accessibility research was also lauded.
gamified learning. Research also provided intervention grids, the EV ecosystem, the energy internet, and carbon options for caregivers of elders in connected homes. market.
models to offer comprehensive insights to customers. University of Glasgow to Develop Sustainable Technology Solutions that support businesses.
TCS Avapresence, a cloud-based virtual event platform with of DiSQ have won awards. The TCS Research Scholarship extended reality(XR) elements, was leveraged by customers Program, that completed 10 years, has been extended.
to the Chromite Core community in processor design customer requests. The TCS Innovista 2022 contest drew and verification areas.

10,000+ innovative entries. TCS won four awards in the Tata The Company’s intellectual property grew with 260+ Innovista 2022 finals. publications and presentations in top-tier journals and conferences. As of March 31, 2023, 7305 patents have TCS CodeVita completed a decade of engaging students been filed (cumulatively) by the Company and 2878 have with programming as a sport. Season 10 saw participation been granted. TCS won many awards relating to IP, of 100,000+ students from 87 countries and was one of the including the Asia IP Elite Award 2022 for being an exemplar most competitive finales in the contest’s history. of IP value creation.
TCS OmniStoreTM and TCS OptumeraTM won Stevies Future course of action:
Grid Forum (ISGF) Innovation Awards 2023. VidyutVanika and of partners to deliver innovative solutions created in collaboration with IIIT Hyderabad won at the for customers.
international smart grid competition PowerTAC 2022.
TCS’ Digital Farming Initiatives won the NASSCOM Expenditure on R&D:
TCS continues to contribute to standards in areas such as Research (DSIR), function from Pune, Chennai, Bengaluru, environmental engineering, cyber security, cyber resilience, Delhi- NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.
quantum computing & communication, accessibility of ICT Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation for the differently abled, AI and FinTech-RegTech. centers of TCS during FY 2023 and FY 2022 are given below:
Expenditure on R&D and innovation Standalone Consolidated FY 2023 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2022
a. Capital 1 -* 1 -* b. Recurring 375 337 380 341 c. Total R&D expenditure (a+b) 376 337 381 341 d. Innovation center expenditure 2,048 1,841 2,119 1,901 e. Total R&D and innovation expenditure (c+d) 2,424 2,178 2,500 2,242 f. R&D and innovation expenditure as a 1.3% 1.4% 1.1% 1.2% percentage of total turnover *Represents value less than ₹0.50 crore Foreign exchange earnings and outgo 27. Acknowledgements Export revenue constituted 94.3 percent of the total The Directors thank the Company’s employees, customers, standalone revenue in FY 2023 (94.0 percent in FY 2022). vendors, investors and academic partners for their (` crore) continuous support. The Directors also thank the Government of India, Governments of various states Foreign exchange FY 2023 FY 2022 in India, Governments of various countries and concerned earnings and outgo Government departments and agencies for their a. Foreign exchange 1,83,412 1,55,240 co-operation.
b. CIF Value of imports 144 216 by every member of the TCS family.
Chairman DIN 00121863

Annexure I Annual Report on CSR Activities 1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company strategy incorporates an inclusive approach into the design TCS’ CSR vision is to empower people and communities, of every program. In India this is also aligned to its support building self-reliance through purpose and technology of the Government of India’s Affirmative Action Policy while ensuring the values of fairness, equity, and respect and the Tata Group’s Affirmative Action Program.
– especially women, youth, and marginalized groups. invests in strategic partnerships, research, and insights and in providing pro-bono technology consulting.
sanitation and hygiene, conservation, and disaster relief impact investments in large scale, sustainable, multi-year efforts to support the basic needs of communities across programs that empower communities.
the globe.
The projects undertaken are within the broad framework By applying its resources towards communities that need it of Schedule VII to the Act.
the most, TCS ensures equitable access. The Company’s CSR
2. Composition of the CSR committee:
Composition of the CSR committee shared above and is TCS has been conducting internal impact assessments to available on the Company’s website at monitor and evaluate its strategic CSR programs.

5. (a) Average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of Section 135: ₹38,662 crore (b) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per sub-section (5) of section 135: ₹773 crore (c) Surplus arising out of the CSR Projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years : NIL (d) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any : NIL (e) Total CSR obligation for the financial year [5(b)+5(c)-5(d)]: ₹773 crore 6. (a) Amount spent on CSR Projects (both Ongoing Project and other than Ongoing Project): ₹775 crore (b) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads: ₹8 crore (c) Amount spent on Impact Assessment, if applicable: NIL (d) Total amount spent for the Financial Year [6(a)+6(b)+6(c)]: ₹783 crore (e) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
transfer 783 NIL - - NIL -
(f) Excess amount for set off, if any:
Sr. Particular Amount No.
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)] 10
7. Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
(6)
- NIL - - - - - -
8. Whether any capital assets have been created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year:

If Yes, enter the number of Capital assets created/ acquired : Not Applicable Furnish the details relating to such asset(s) so created or acquired through Corporate Social Responsibility amount spent in the Financial Year:
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) NIL
9. Specify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend two per cent of the average net profit as per section 135(5) - Not Applicable Rajesh Gopinathan N Chandrasekaran Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director Chairman, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee DIN 06365813 DIN 00121863

Annexure II Form No. MR-3 Secretarial Audit Report (a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) for the financial year ended March 31, 2023 Regulations, 2011;
[Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and (b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015;
To, Capital and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, The Members, 2018 and amendments from time to time;
2021; (Not applicable to the Company during the audit and expressing our opinion thereon.
covering the financial year ended on March 31, 2023, generally of Securities) Regulations, 2018;
to the reporting made hereinafter: a) Information Technology Act, 2000 and the rules made thereunder;
returns filed and other records made available to us b) Special Economic Zones Act, 2005 and the rules made and maintained by the Company for the financial year ended on thereunder;
March 31, 2023 according to the applicable provisions of:
regulations thereunder;
Bye-laws framed thereunder; We have also examined compliance with the applicable clauses of the following:
Direct Investment, Overseas Direct Investment and External Secretaries of India with respect to board and general Commercial Borrowings; meetings.
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited (‘SEBI Act’):

read with the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure As per the minutes, decisions at the Board Meetings were taken Requirements) Regulations, 2015. unanimously.
standards etc. mentioned above. operations of the Company to monitor and ensure compliance with applicable Laws, Rules, Regulations and Guidelines etc.
We further report that:
with proper balance of Executive Directors, Non-Executive pursuance of the above referred Laws, Rules, Regulations, Directors and Independent Directors. The changes in the Guidelines, Standards etc.
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral part of this report.

‘Annexure A’ 4. Where ever required, we have obtained the Management Representation about the Compliance of Laws, To, Rules and Regulations and happening of events etc.
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter. responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy our audit.
or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
FCS No: 327 CP No: 1228 reasonable basis for our opinion.
UDIN: F000327E000066844

Management Global Spend on IT Services ($ Bn) USD Billion Discussion and 1600 1.4x 1,250 800 878 Analysis 400 200 100 2.4x 27.9 Overview of the Industry 50 Global GDP in FY 2023 was affected by the Russia-Ukraine war 11.6 and resultant dislocations in supply chains, leading to surging 10 food and energy inflation. Central banks raised interest rates 0 TCS Revenue $ Bn sharply in response. As a result, the global GDP is estimated to FY 2013 FY 2023 have grown at a more subdued 3.4% in 2022, versus 5.9% in the prior year1. The outperformance may be attributed to market share gains resulting from TCS’ longer-term, purpose-driven partnerships Global technology spending on Enterprise software and IT with its customers, its agile organization structure, and a very services crossed the $2 trillion2 mark in 2022, growing 5.5% YoY. stable management team; its investments in organic talent IT services grew 3.5% YoY, to $1,250 billion. This growth was led development, research and innovation, intellectual property and by accelerated cloud adoption, preference for external expertise in building newer capabilities that have helped expand wallet due to severe talent scarcity, and expanding scope of digital share with clients; and better execution resulting in greater transformation to cover more back-office operational areas. customer satisfaction.
a global presence, deep domain expertise in multiple industry market growth over the last decade.
cognitive business operations, and products and platforms – 3GRI 2-22
targeting every C-suite stakeholder.
model which enables a highly distributed, Location Independent Agile™ delivery.
the United Kingdom, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, India and Middle-East Africa.
and Technology (CMT), Retail and Consumer Business, Life Sciences and Healthcare, Manufacturing and Others.
mitigating risks while discharging its social and environmental responsibilities.

TCS has been broadening and deepening customer relationships prototypes. The Pace Ports at Pittsburgh in the US, in the by continually looking for new opportunities and newer areas in Carnegie Mellon University campus, and the other in Toronto, their businesses to add value, proactively investing in building Canada, were formally inaugurated this year. Including the ones newer capabilities, reskilling its workforce and launching newer in Tokyo, New York and Amsterdam, the company has five Pace services, solutions, products and platforms to address those Ports in all.
opportunities.
competitive differentiation. research centre, located at Heriot-Watt University’s Edinburgh campus.
wallet, as evidenced by the client metrics. and composable commerce, Enterprise personalization, and Marketing hub.
addressable market, and a proven track record in delivering training, certifications, credentials and in building solutions and longer term stakeholder value. intellectual property on their respective hyperscaler stacks.
new family of technologies that emerged in the last decade. across multiple areas, TCS was the launch partner for many new Quick to recognize the potential of cloud, the company made solutions introduced by hyperscaler platforms during the year.
these physical spaces to work with academic and start-up 5G Edge Suite, TwinX, TCS Clever Energy™, TCS IP2™ and TCS partners, ideate jointly with client teams and rapidly build Envirozone™.
uncertainty impacting of operations. robust order book that gives better decision making visibility of medium-term growth.
reduction initiatives also enhance enterprise agility, resilience and throughput. consolidations.
relationships to propose product-aligned operating models. client’s transformation programs in some instances.
components that infuse AI/ML and other technologies into of driving quicker realization of RoI IT and business processes to reduce human intervention, and used by nearly 300 clients.
increase velocity and throughput.

Opportunity / Threat TCS Approach Outcomes Greater interest in using • Focused on developing contextual knowledge and applying • Expansion of addressable market.
technology to drive that for inside-out transformations.
business growth and
• Continued investments in research and innovation, TCS adding to growth.
differentiation Pace Ports, and intellectual property (IP).
• Higher quality revenue, lending
• Dedicated practice with domain experts to bring together margin resilience.
• More deeply embedded in the to stitch together comprehensive solutions.
client’s business.
• Engaging with a broader set of business problems.
buyers in the client organization.
• New brand tagline ‘Building on Belief’ to strengthen
• Higher visibility within C-Suites.
positioning as a growth and transformation partner.
Accelerated adoption of • Dedicated business units with end to end capabilities on • Strong growth in cloud public cloud each of the hyperscaler platforms. transformation revenues.
• Continued investment by each of these units in skills, • Top tier partner to each of the certifications, credentials, IP and accelerators. hyperscalers.
• Made available TCS products and solutions on public transformation.
clouds.
• Over 110,000 hyperscaler-certified employees.
Greater acceptance of • Strengthened alliances and launched new offerings around • Stronger win-win partnerships.
as-a-Service platforms the popular and new SaaS products.
• Expansion of addressable market.
• Helped ISV* clients upgrade their products to launch new
• Strong growth in SaaS sales.
SaaS versions.
innovative as-a-Service offerings using TCS Bringing Life to revenue visibility.
Things IoT framework.
TCS IP:
• Promoted SaaS versions of in-house product portfolio, now available on hyperscaler platforms.
• Used IP portfolio to launch new platforms that bundle IP and shared services on the cloud.
to maximize the potential of every employee by creating a 50% of employees started working from office for two or more purpose-driven, inclusive, stimulating, and rewarding work days in a week.
globally, taking the total employee base to 614,795, representing program and close to 60% is certified in various market 150 nationalities. relevant skills.

• Xcelerate - The industry recognized Talent Transformation • TCS Academic Interface Program continued to engage platform for employees, to capture employees’ aspirations with faculty and students through focus group connects, and mapping them to future opportunities. Aspirations workshops, faculty development programs and other of nearly 2/3rd of TCSers were captured, with ~100K campus outreach activities. In FY 2023, TCS engaged with progressing towards their aspired roles. over 216,000 students and about 17,000 faculty members in nearly 1,500 partner academic institutes across the • Engagement with Purpose – A platform for employees world. More than 2,000 interns were engaged during the to live TCS’ values through collective community service, year.
enhance organizational belonging and self-actualization.
employee churn peaking mid-year, then falling sharply in disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression the latter half. This entailed recalibrating talent acquisition and any other category protected by applicable law.
largest job creators in IT services in several major markets, for in the Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI) once again. Other both freshers and lateral hires. In addition to about 44,000 fresh highlights include:
mode to a hybrid model of virtual and in-person recruitment program for women completed 22 editions, benefiting focused on attracting the right talent, creating better employee 1,450 women leaders.
experiences, and building the TCS brand.
Key Achievements: measurement tool that aims at identifying gaps and
• TCS National Qualifier Test: Over 618,000 students from assessing an organization’s maturity in DEI.
• TCS CareersNext: TCS’ virtual career fair platform was to share organizational learnings. DEI focused learning leveraged for conducting 3 virtual hiring drives in this programs were conducted for 4 client organizations.
competition now in its 7th season saw over 58,000 towards ACC certification. So far, 3 cohorts have completed registrations from more than 3,000 institutes across India. this program bringing together over 450 internal coaches.
encouraging outcomes. Rebegin, an initiative for training designed to sensitize employees on key concepts of experienced women professionals re-entering the DEI. 504,255 employees completed this in FY 2023.
workforce after a break saw nearly 14,000 job applications.
under-represented communities and their allies to share disabilities.
opportunities for graduates and postgraduates in pharmacy together based on shared diversity identity characteristics or interest.
in the company’s life sciences business.

• Champions of Equity: This campaign was created to • 500,000 employees trained in digital technologies, with an ensure a fair and inclusive culture at the workplace. Under average of ~7.5 competencies per employee.
inclusive approach towards every individual, culture and 35,000 as Agile certified and about 3,000 as mentors and system. coaches.
responded to by over 7,000 employees across 7 working, the company adopted an increasingly phygital geographies. (physical + digital) approach to learning and development.
Over 80,000 TCSers benefited from in-person training
• Employee Engagement: Over 84,000 employees during the year.
that identifies certified diverse suppliers that can provide management, the company makes refinements to existing competitive, high-quality goods and services, whose policies and introduces new policy. In FY 2023, TCS:
• Introduced a new policy on workforce fluidity, in keeping strategy.
Talent Development TCS strongly believes that every employee should have access challenging opportunities at defined periodicity.
provides necessary support and flexibility for caregivers of segmented approach to learning to ensure this.
young children, expectant women employees, and persons with disability.
individuals with mental variations and HIV/Aids affected increased compensation.
persons at the workplace, and to comply with relevant inclusivity laws.
business and technology landscape, continues to expand. The TCS has multiple initiatives to help employees grow in their company has over 64,000 Contextual Masters who are being careers:
currently has about 36,000 mentors in the organization of
• TCSers invested in 82.4 hours of learning on average during whom more than 3,500 Gold and Silver certified.
the year.
Mid-level focus showing results role and career. In FY 2023, over 29,000 iConnect sessions were initiated.
followed by an assessment of their leadership attributes.
• TCSers acquired 53,000 certifications on various healthy leadership pipeline.

high potential communities, thereby facilitating talent outreach initiatives, contributing 898,000 volunteering mobility. This embodies the company’s philosophy of hours that benefited 394,000 individuals in the community.
with more than 400k employees taking in the survey. TCS development and building strong organizational loyalty.
has achieved Satisfaction Index of 79.5 and Engagement Index of 81.0.
TCS’ business model depends on its ability to attract and Other engagement and collaboration platforms in TCS include:
engineering and with relevant technical skills. collaboration within the organization, learning, sharing and for rewards and recognition.
qualification, experience levels, special skills if any, and • Safety First: Initiative focused on employee safety and individual performance. Compensation structures are driven security.
by prevailing practices in each country that TCS operates in.
– Elevate, is designed to establish a tighter linkage between activities that help create a bond among employees and learning, skill development, career and reward. The company promote work-life balance.
Employee Retention the market to ensure competitiveness.
termination6. Although most of the organization’s activities been integral to creating a culture of belonging and One TCS and are performed by full-time employees, TCS uses contractors, also made it an industry benchmark in talent retention.
and giving first right of refusal to internal talent for new open Engagement with Purpose positions, inspires higher levels of loyalty to the organization.
project confluences with an emphasis on Living my Values, significant value through their contributions and contextual Build my Career and Lifelong Learning. The company enabled knowledge.
conversations. Unprecedented levels of employee churn across the industry drove TCS’ attrition to an all-time high in the first half of FY 2023.
Highlights of the company’s key engagement forums:
It trended down in the second half. IT services attrition was
• New Joinee Integration: Various structured programs 20.1% on an LTM basis.
are measured across the organization and reported. The satisfaction index.
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in the Board reviews the
• TCS Cares: Aims to build an emotionally strong and company’s health and safety performance on a half-yearly basis.
leaders saw participation by over 1,100 leaders. 87% employee health and safety committees that monitor, advise, of participants agreed that it helped in their wellbeing and drive occupational, health and safety initiatives.
TCS is certified to ISO 45001:2018 Occupational Health and attending this program.
Safety Management System standard across 127 of its facilities
• Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness conscious worldwide covering approximately 94% of its total footprint.
year. General safety awareness (fire safety, office safety, road projects in the areas of education, health and environment.
yoga and meditation practices, mental health and wellbeing which drew employee participation.

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW The discussions in this section relate to the consolidated, Rupee-denominated financial results pertaining to the year that ended March 31, 2023. The financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘TCS’ or ‘the Company’) are prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as ‘Ind AS’) prescribed under section
133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended from time to time.
Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The following table gives an overview of the consolidated financial results of the company:
(` crore) FY 2023 FY 2022
Amount % of Revenue % Growth Amount % of Revenue Revenue from operations 225,458 100.0 17.6 191,754 100.0 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 59,259 26.3 11.7 53,057 27.7 amortization (EBITDA) (before other income) Profit Before Tax (PBT) 56,907 25.2 10.1 51,687 27.0 Profit after tax attributable to shareholders of the 42,147 18.7 10.0 38,327 20.0 company Earnings per share (in `) 115.19 11.2 103.62 Analysis of revenue growth On a reported basis, TCS’ revenue grew 17.6% in FY 2023, compared to 16.8% in the prior year. The growth was driven by accelerated spending on digital transformation initiatives, cloud adoption and increased outsourcing, aided by currency benefit.
Average currency exchange rates during FY 2023 for the three major currencies are given below:
` ` USD 56.0 80.74 74.61 8.2
GBP 12.8 96.98 101.50 (4.5) EUR 10.8 84.01 86.36 (2.7)
Movements in currency exchange rates through the year resulted in a positive impact of 3.9% on the reported revenue. The constant currency revenue growth for the year, which is the reported revenue growth stripped of the currency impact, was 13.7%.
Segmental Performance The revenue break-up by Industry Vertical and Geography is provided below:

Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided below:
FY 2023 Growth FY 2023 (FY 2022) % (FY 2022)
₹ crore % Banking, Financial 86,127 14.6 • AI for risk monitoring and management, fraud detection and 25.9 Services and (75,126) trading strategies. (26.9) Insurance • Customer journey transformation, ecosystem strategies for new products and services, connected insurance, fintech adoption.
• Decentralized finance, embedded finance, Banking as a Service, document custody transformation.
• Sustainability and climate change initiatives, green lending.
• AI-monitored networks, generative AI for automated content creation.
• Hyper-personalization, immersive experiences in gaming, recommendation engines.
• Marketplace, social commerce, future stores, digital advertising platform, payments.
• Smart shelves, smart manufacturing, automated micro-fulfilment centers.
• Resilient and intelligent supply chain, partner integration, track and trace, last-mile delivery, AI enabled inventory management.
(omni-channel), hyper personalization, CX and recommendations, AI for apparel design and personalized fashion recommendations.
• Green labeling.
Travel, Transportation and Hospitality (TTH):
selling and non-booking revenues in hospitality, decision intelligence.
identity solutions, maintenance drones in airlines, autonomous vehicles, and robots in airports.
delivery, real-time operations visibility, AI-enabled pricing, end- to-end shipment visibility in logistics.
• Safe and sustainable travel.
intelligent automation, business and IT operating model transformation, agile and DevOps adoption, digital marketing and analytics, mergers, acquisitions and divestitures, supply chain transformation, vendor consolidation and cost optimization.

Industry Vertical Segment YoY Key Demand Drivers7 Segment Revenue Revenue Margin FY 2023 Growth FY 2023 (FY 2022) % (FY 2022)
₹ crore % Life Sciences and 24,605 20.2 Life Sciences: 28.0 Healthcare (20,462) (30.0) • Drug discovery, virtual clinical trials, connected labs, and instruments.
• Digital twin for manufacturing and factory of the future.
• AI-led pharmacovigilance and product surveillance.
Healthcare:
• Patient experience, health data platforms.
• Wearable devices, mobile health.
• AI powered diagnosis, treatment planning, digital surgery, personalized medicine.
(18,610) (30.1)
• Connected assets and plants, remote asset management.
• Resilient supply chain, parts track and trace.
• Front-end digital investments to enhance customer experience.
tracking and monitoring, sustainability focus on facilities waste management and energy, EVs.
(14,967) metering and alerts, virtual power plants, remote monitoring (20.6) and infra inspection.
• AI-enabled smart grids, patterns, and predictions.
• Energy transition, emission detection and monitoring in critical infrastructure.
Business Outlook FY 2023, at $34.1 Bn, which is 1.2 times revenue. The pipeline Global growth is projected to moderate from 3.4 percent in has also grown well.
moderation in full year revenue growth after two years of strong certain discretionary programs.
growth.
Despite this, spending on IT services has been resilient so far.
Cloud migration programs are continuing apace, and clients FY 2024 include:
and resilient. All this has resulted in a strong order book for cyber security, ERP modernization, low-code no-code, 5G/ Edge and AI adoption.

• G&T: Customer experience transformation using knock-on effects of the pandemic including attrition and impact personalization, omnichannel implementation, immersive of hybrid modes of working. Technological advancements and experiences using XR/Metaverse, product and business breakthroughs like generative AI and metaverse have opened up model innovation, supply chain modernization, M&A new vistas of both risks and opportunities.
integration / divestitures, sustainability.
FY 2023 saw multiple external and internal challenges continuing actions respectively.
to shape the overall risk profile of the company. Macroeconomic and geo-political risks had an impact throughout the year.
with the year ending with banking industry upheavals in US and geographies, business functions, customer relationships and Europe. During the year, IT organizations including TCS faced the individual projects.
Listed below are some of the key risks, anticipated impact on the company and mitigation strategies.
Volatile global • Geo-politics and macroeconomic • Broad-based business mix, well diversified across Negative political and volatility can affect demand for the geographies and industry verticals.
and merchandise scarcities and internal controls to further safeguard against related inflation. secondary risks.
stakeholders (in addition to the CIO) in the spending and fuel social unrest.
banks to rein in the inflation could result in economic slowdowns. every point in the business cycle.
business outlook and result in reduced knowledge and data-driven analytics and demand for TCS’ services. It could also dashboards.
increase TCS’ costs of doing business.
cybersecurity, sanctions compliance business efficiency.
could increase costs or affect the company’s revenue growth.
9 TCFD Risk Management A, B and C 10 GRI 3-3

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 • Proactively invest in infrastructure and resourcing to satisfy anticipated customer demand for flexible products and platforms- based solution offerings and subscription-based services to gain market share and new clients and markets.
• Enter into more long-term contracts.
• Target market segments which provide counter- cyclical support in times of downturn.
alliances to participate in transformation initiatives of customers.
• Country-level business continuity plans in place to address potential conflicts in the region.
and attrition • Talent scarcity can lead to poaching of positions, all incentivize planning of longer-term (R & O) the company’s employees and result careers in TCS and improved retention.
ongoing projects, slow down planned • Tactical initiatives to retain talent using proactive ramp ups and affect revenue growth. as well as reactive initiatives.
from the market, can also impact TCS’ capability to capture the demand from the ability to grow. market.
networking sites and talent sourcing channels to tap into the passive pool.
• Reduce talent acquisition cycle time to improve joining rates through innovative practices.
local hiring and building reputation to attract local talent.
• Talent scarcity in major markets is or managed services models to enable tapping impeding enterprises’ ability to staff into global talent pools.
therefore a differentiated positioning positions, all incentivize planning of longer-term for the company, driving market share careers in TCS and best in class talent retention.
gains.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 • Focused employee engagement to reduce attrition, increase sense of belonging and build capacity to capture market share.
attrition of individual team members, and helps differentiate TCS.
location of people across countries and any governments to promote local talent building strategies (R) restrictions in key markets pose a efforts.
• Material reduction in dependency on work professionals.
• Restrictions could also be due to contractors, local mobility and training in all legislations which limit / delay the major markets.
costs, leading to project delays and to promote systematic collaboration and reduce increased expenses. the need for co-location.
designed to structurally increase the availability of engineering talent in major markets.
of investments, innovation capabilities and employment generation.
• Increased outreach to government stakeholders, trade bodies, think tanks and research institutes.
models and therefore new kinds of knowledge across customer specific domain, competitors.
technologies and processes.
• Increased focus on corporate support of applications.
technology providers, academia, and start-ups, pressures.
responses. Inability to quickly to mitigate risks and participate in the adapt could affect company’s opportunities.
competitiveness and result in loss of market share.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 • Steadily expanding coverage of newer buyers Opportunity: in the enterprise by constantly launching new Positive offerings and solutions to their most pressing
• Increased focus on corporate business problems.
Independent Agile methods to mitigate location
• Interest in technology-enabled constraints and pricing and margin pressures.
• Pressure to establish competitive to constantly evolving situations on the ground differentiation is driving enterprises with agility and speed.
• This is also driving greater interest induced demand for advisory and business in pre-built solutions, products and consolidation related services.
solutions. hyperscaler clouds to accelerate clients’ Horizon 2 and 3 transformation journeys.
operating model transformations. to help clients accelerate their product and business model innovation.
create connected products, launch remote monitoring and maintenance services.
to help clients embrace subscription-based business models.
build organizational capacity, new brand tagline, amplification of transformation successes.
arbitrage based constructs, and gain market share.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 Currency • Volatility in currency exchange • Currency hedging policy that is aligned with Negative / volatility (R) movements results in transaction and market best practices, to limit impact of Positive translation exposure. TCS’ functional short term exchange volatility on receivables, currency is the Indian Rupee. forecasted revenue and other current assets and Appreciation of the Rupee against liabilities.
the profitability and also result in periodically by the Risk Management Committee collection losses. of the Board.
optically inflate revenues and currency figures to enable a currency-neutral earnings, distorting stakeholder understanding of business growth.
perceptions of the underlying business momentum and profitability.
(R) increased compliance risk. sets out the privacy principles and guidance for deployment.
penalties and reputational impact. the data privacy framework in all functions and business units.
privacy practices while catering to local requirements.
to regulatory and legal landscape and enhancing the data privacy framework.
• Privacy Information Management Systems (ISO 27701:2019) adopted and certified.
or changed internal processes, services and products.
in the TCS ecosystem and also in customer engagements.
• Industry standard data masking and encryption technologies to protect personal data.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 • Vendors and third parties subjected to due diligence, contracted with appropriate privacy obligations and tracked for compliance based on risk assessment.
campaigns through blog posts, email broadcasts, gamification, roadshows and online events.
agreements, where required for the transfer of data across jurisdictions.
audit firm to verify compliance to obligations in addition to internal audits across the ecosystem.
In addition to impact on business and recovery process in compliance with operations, a security breach could result industry best practices.
attempts and soliciting for fraudulent causes or charities through social media, text or calls.
intelligence agencies, and enhanced awareness of emerging cyber threats.
and collaboration platforms accessed through mobile or desktop channels.
privileged administrator accounts, rigorous access management on all cloud deployments.
• Encryption of data, data back-up and recovery mechanisms for ensuring business continuity.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 • Ability to isolate TCS enterprise network from client network and defined escalation mechanisms to handle security incidents in client environment.
of controls through vulnerability assessment and penetration testing.
• Internal and external audits, red teaming, “breach and attack” simulation.
government, public and private sources to proactively block IPs used by threat actors.
• State of the art security operations center with automated playbooks.
Opportunity: • Investments in building local threat management Positive centers across the world.
investments in building cyber • Launch of new services and solutions including resilience and turning to specialized the Cyber Defense Suite.
intrusion attempts and limit the impact.
preferred cyber security partner to its clients.
regulations (R) broad range of areas grouped under of operations and functional areas and environmental, social and governance management of compliance risks.
themes.
nature of changes in the of compliance obligations and governance to regulatory requirements requires ensure long-term business sustainability.
along with agility in adaptation in through business policies and embedding into business operations. Failure to comply business processes.
• 100% digitized, quarterly regulatory compliance damage and criminal prosecution.
compliance areas applicable to company’s global operations.
and fraudulent activities and internal audits to provide compliance assurance.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 • Strong focus on fostering ethical and compliance culture; awareness through web-based compliance training courses for all staff and regular notifications/alerts on regulatory changes communicated to stakeholders.
management levels through compliance committees and compliance working groups.
litigation and impact reputation. of third-party IP while ensuring safeguarding of TCS’ own IP assets.
an IP-led culture and IP related awareness effectively.
on IP, legal, software product engineering and business-related risks.
IP, partner IP, and third-party IP in service and partner engagements.
TCS’ product teams and customer account teams.
employment related matters. of intellectual property and avoidance of allegations of trade secret violations.
inclusion of arbitration provisions in employment
• Besides the distraction and legal contracts.
substantive damages. and escalate potential disputes within the organization for early mitigation steps.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 • Team of in-house counsels in all major geographies and a network of reputed global law firms in countries it operates in.
notices as well as defend the company’s position in all claims and litigation.
change and human safety and can cause business and infrastructure, on target to achieve net zero Environmental disruptions. carbon emissions by 2030.
the company faces physical risks to life weather events. Business continuity plans are and property due to extreme weather tested periodically to ensure effectiveness.
risks of inadvertent non-compliance technologies and methods to manage waste in to emerging regulatory requirements line with circular economy principles.
business disruption and reputational of water infrastructure and more water efficient damage. All of these could affect TCS’ systems.
growth and profitability.
recycling of treated water and rainwater harvesting.
sourcing, including leveraging sustainability ratings platform.
environmental awareness and sensitizing them towards nature and conservation of resources.
Sustainathons to come up with technology-led innovations to safeguard TCS’ environment.
to the growing demand more associated with those workloads.
realize their green plans. sustainability innovation, sustainable consumer analytics and sustainability dashboards.
attractive to enterprises looking for an ESG integration solution, to help accelerate IT partner with a shared purpose. It customers’ sustainability journeys.
also helps attract and retain younger, more purpose-driven employees.

Key Risks (R) Impact on the Company In case of risk, approach to adapt or mitigate10 Financial / Opportunity implications (O) of the risk or opportunity11 Challenges and Disruptive cutting-edge technologies like • Ensure controlled use of these technologies Negative Opportunities quantum computing, generative AI and through pilots/research.
• Restricted access to generative AI technologies Technologies impact TCS’ business:
like ChatGPT on company network until proven (R & O)
• Quantum computing may increase safe.
academia to build consensus about policies and prove inadequate.
guidelines for use of these technologies.
fakes and privacy and copyright technologies.
infringement issues.
• The efficacy of AI models depends on language models consortia.
cause reputational damage and legal liabilities.
testing activities, distorting customer expectations in the short term.
• Generative AI technologies also have development processes to boost productivity.
solutions using those technologies, as customers seek Quantum safe security and new services needing newer kinds algorithms.
of skills.
attention and adoption of the technology increases.

Internal Financial Control Systems and their Adequacy B S R & Co. LLP, the statutory auditors of TCS have audited the TCS has aligned its current systems of internal financial control financial statements included in this annual report and have with the requirement of Companies Act, 2013, on the lines issued an attestation report on the company’s internal control of the globally accepted risk-based framework issued by the over financial reporting (as defined in section 143 of Companies Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Act, 2013).
nature of its operations. These have been designed to provide employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT processes, including reasonable assurance with regard to recording and providing the subsidiaries and foreign branches.
purposes. It has continued its efforts to align all its processes control systems and keeps the board of directors informed of its and controls with global best practices. major observations periodically.
Regulations, 2015 (SEBI LODR) as of March 31, 2023. internal financial controls were adequate and operating effectively.

PAAG naidnI
SA dnI 4102
YF YF
#5102 YF
YF YF
YF YF
YF YF
*1202 YF
YF YF
snotiarepo morf euneveR 908,18 846,49 846,49 646,801 669,711 401,321 364,641 949,651 771,461 771,461 457,191 854,522 snotiarepo morf eunever latoT stnemges cihpargoeg yb euneveR 952,54 350,15 350,15 110,06 190,66 541,66 265,77 000,28 872,48 872,48 270,001 633,421 saciremA 334,32 037,62 037,62 290,92 830,03 551,43 654,34 730,84 643,25 643,25 241,16 634,76 eporuE 884,5 801,6 801,6 927,6 514,7 129,7 393,8 469,8 944,8 944,8 508,9 172,11 aidnI 926,7 757,01 757,01 418,21 224,41 388,41 250,71 849,71 401,91 401,91 537,02 514,22 srehtO tsoC 684,04 429,05 692,84 843,55 126,16 693,66 642,87 259,58 418,19 418,19 455,701 225,721 tsoc eeyolpmE 071,61 242,91 242,91 126,22 430,42 291,42 117,82 888,82 530,72 718,52 341,13 776,83 tsoc gntiarepo rehtO & tseretni gnidulcxe( tsoc latoT 656,65 661,07 835,76 969,77 556,58 885,09 759,601 048,411 948,811 136,711 796,831 991,661 )notiaicerped ytilibatfiorP 351,52 284,42 011,72 776,03 113,23 615,23 605,93 901,24 823,54 645,64 750,35 952,95 )emocni rehto erofeb( ADTIBE
204,52 908,52 734,82 048,13 315,43 290,43 365,14 842,24 067,34 879,44 786,15 709,65 xat erofeb tfiorP ot elbatubirtta xat refta tfiorP 461,91 258,91 219,12 072,42 982,62 628,52 274,13 043,23 034,23 883,33 723,83 741,24 ynapmoC eht fo sredloherahs notiisoP laicnaniF 691 691 691 791 791 191 573 573 073 073 663 663 latipac erahs ytiuqE 999,84 934,05 994,25 578,07 710,68 739,48 170,98 157,38 360,68 410,78 377,88 850,09 sulprus dna sevreseR dna tnalp ,ytreporp fo kcolb ssorG 261,31 426,61 426,61 803,91 198,02 027,22 225,42 444,62 856,82 856,82 003,03 443,23 tnempiuqe 434,3 266,1 266,1 228,22 089,14 800,63 033,92 653,62 373,92 373,92 584,03 361,73 stnemtsevni latoT 722,72 594,82 627,03 446,74 408,56 693,36 740,07 771,36 521,56 670,66 959,56 217,66 stessa tnerruc teN ₹ ni erahs rep sgninraE 76.79 53.101 78.111 81.321 14.331 91.431 50.38 91.68 17.68 72.98 26.301 91.511 detroper sa - SPE 48.84 86.05 49.55 95.16 17.66 01.76 50.38 91.68 17.68 72.98 26.301 91.511 eussI sunoB rof detsujda
- SPE )rebmun( tnuocdaeH )seiraidisbus gnidulcni( tnuocdaeH 464,003 656,913 656,913 348,353 322,783 899,493 582,424 464,844 946,884 946,884 591,295 597,416 ts13 hcraM no sa .5102 ,1 lirpA morf
SA dnI otni denotiisnart ynapmoc ehT : etoN .mialc lagel sdrawot noisivorp gnidulcxE* .drawer eeyolpme emti-eno fo tcapmi eht gnidulcxE #

Overview of Funds Invested Funds invested exclude earmarked balances with banks and equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
(` Crore) FY 2023 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2022 FY 2023 FY 2022
Current Non-current Total funds invested Investments in mutual funds, Government 36,897 30,262 230 187 37,127 30,449 securities and others Deposits with banks 8,223 15,784 1,334 1,232 9,557 17,016 Inter-corporate deposits 846 6,074 170 303 1,016 6,377 Cash and bank balances 2,124 2,211 - - 2,124 2,211 Total 48,090 54,331 1,734 1,722 49,824 56,053 Total invested funds include ₹2,080 crore and ₹1,722 crore for FY 2023 and FY 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
Revenue Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Ind As Indian GAAP Unit FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 2023 2022 2021* 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015# 2015 2014 Operating Cash Flows / Total % 18.6 20.8 23.6 23.6 20.6 19.5 20.4 21.4 17.6 20.5 20.5 18.0 Revenue Free Cash Flow / Operating % 92.7 92.6 91.9 91.9 90.5 92.5 92.8 92.3 89.7 84.8 84.8 78.9 Cash Flow Ratio Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment / Average Gross % 9.2 9.1 8.7 8.7 8.6 8.5 9.1 9.5 10.0 11.7 11.7 10.6 Block of Property, Plant and Equipment Ratios - Per Share EPS - adjusted for Bonus ` 115.19 103.62 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 67.10 66.71 61.59 55.94 50.68 48.84 Price Earnings Ratio, end of Times 27.8 36.1 35.6 36.6 21.2 24.1 21.2 18.2 20.4 22.8 25.1 21.8 year Dividend Per Share ` 115.00 43.00 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 50.00 47.00 43.50 79.00 79.00 32.00 Dividend Per Share - adjusted ` 115.00 43.00 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 25.00 23.50 21.75 39.50 39.50 16.00 for Bonus Market Capitalization / Total Times 5.2 7.1 7.2 7.2 4.4 5.1 4.4 4.1 4.6 5.3 5.3 5.1 Revenue Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Awards and Accolades Financial Capital • Ranked #1 by revenue in the UK across the entire technology ecosystem for the second year, in the 2022 TechMarketView UK Software and IT Services Supplier Rankings.
system integrators, service providers and IT consultants by revenue in North America.
(IRMA) 2022 by ICICI Lombard and CNBC-TV18: ‘Masters Trade Solution of the Year by Financial Technologies of Risk in IT-ITes’ under the Large Cap category, Masters Forum.
and ranked #1 Fraud Management solution in the IBS
• Recognized with a special award in the category `Regional Intelligence Sales League Tables for 2022.
Business Awards. • TCS Quartz won Outstanding Innovation of the Year at the Industry Excellence Awards by the Asset Servicing Times.
Exemplar of IP Value. Year award from Retail Systems for delivering a seamless customer experience.
Property Organization’s (WIPO’s) Users Trophy at the International Business Awards 2022 in the AI/ML solution category.
National Intellectual Property Awards 2021 & 2022.
Property (IP) Portfolio in the Large Enterprises category. Solution award at the IoT Solution Awards 2022 during the IoT Solutions World Congress.
in smart collaboration at the CXO Tech Awards 2022. • TCS Marketing Data Hub won the Economic Times DATA CON Awards 2022 for Automated Data Management.
the Stevie Awards Asia Pacific 2022 for Innovative
• TCS BaNCS™ ranked # 1 in the Investment and Fund Achievement in Customer Satisfaction.
League Tables for 2022. Pharma Award 2022 in the category, Excellence in Ancillary Pharma Services.

• Won an award for Revenue Generation (Customer o Recognized as a Top Employer in the UAE, Kingdom Experience) at the Mint TechCircle Business Transformation of Saudi Arabia, and South Africa for the eighth Awards 2022. successive year.
• Awarded SAP Customer Award for “Best supplier • Featured in 2023 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index.
collaboration story” for TCS Procurement 4.0.
• Won the Best of Best award from Association for Talent
• Won the Customer Innovation Award from Commvault Development (ATD) for the fifth time in a row.
Compliance solution. • Won 4 Golds and 1 Silver at the ET HR Future Skills awards for best learning teams.
Electricity Transmission’ for AI-Powered Control and by Team Marksmen in collaboration with India Today Management of Power Networks. Television.
the 12th CII Design Excellence Awards 2022 for PalPicker, Resources Outstanding Performance of the Year and a fork-over autonomous mobile robot by TCS. Human Resources Project or Initiative of the Year.
Awards for Sales & Customer Service, for solutions Bronzes) and 13 Stevie awards (5 Golds, 5 Silvers and 3 targeting the BFSI vertical. Bronzes) across various functions in HR.
Technology Awards: 1 Gold for Best Advance in Business Industry Academia Collaboration from Indian Achievers Strategy and Technology Innovation and 1 Silver for Best Forum for the second year in a row.
Advance in Learning Management Technology.
Intelligence/ Machine Learning Solution category for TCS Germany and the Nordics in the country-specific rankings Optumera™ and TCS OmniStore™; 1 Silver Stevie in the published in Q4.
Solution category for TCS Enterprise Social Collaboration. seventh year by Whitelane Research, with an overall customer satisfaction score of 82%.
Employers, based on an independent survey of 45,000 (by spend) at the 2022 Microsoft Supplier Prestige employees working for American companies with more Awards.
than 1,000 employees.
• Won the 2022 Best IT Supplier Award from Infineon
• Certified as a Global Top Employer 2023 by the Top Technologies AG.
Employers Institute:
eleventh consecutive year, and the Number One Year for the technology transformation resulting in a cloud- Top Employer in Belgium, Denmark, and The native, resilient, future-ready IT infrastructure.
Netherlands.

INDUSTRY ANALYST • Won the SAP System Integrator BeLux 2022 award at • TCS was ranked a Leader in 126 competitive assessments the SAP BeLux Partner Awards for its strong partnership published by leading research firms in FY 2023 (92 in FY with SAP and its ongoing commitment to digital 2022). In 15 of these, TCS was positioned the foremost transformation and optimizing business processes.
leader or ranked #1.
• Won the Consulting Partner award in Manufacturing and
• Won the 2021 Best Practices Company of the Year Award Energy at the Salesforce 2022 Partner Innovation Awards.
and unmatched customer impact in the GCC’s Business • Named Intel Global System Integrator Partner of the year Process Outsourcing Industry by Frost and Sullivan. 2022.
• Recognized in FinanceAsia’s Best Managed Companies 2022 Leveraging Active Intelligence for Transformation and list as the Best Managed Company and Most Effective in Impact.
months, in India, based on a poll of investors and analysts category `Most Deal Influencer SI Partner’.
across Asia.
• Won 3 partner awards from Software AG: EMEA IOT PARTNER
Partner, EMEA hybrid Integration Partner and Global • Won three 2022 Microsoft Partner of the Year awards in Hybrid Integration Partner.
the categories: SAP on Azure, Retail & Consumer Goods, and Global SI & Advisory Digital Transformation.
• Won the ‘Transformation Partner of the Year Award’ at the Hitachi Vantara GSI Summit 2022 in Lisbon, Portugal.
TCS’ sales achievements that place it in the top echelons `Kubernetes Innovators’ category.
partners. • Won the ‘Emerging Partner of the Year 2022’ award from Nexthink.
of the Year for its commitment and dedication to building • Recognized as BMC’s Partner of the Year 2022 in the strong customer relationships and helping clients achieve category `Digital Business Automation’.
their businesses success.
• Won the 2022 Growth Global System Integrator Partner
• Won two Google Cloud Partner of the Year 2021 awards of the Year award from Nutanix.
for Retail and Global Diversity & Inclusion Partner of the • Won the APJ Top Alliance Growth Partner of the Year Year. Award at Microfocus Partner Leadership Summit 2022.
2022 AWS Partners of the Year awards; as the Security Success Kickoff: Industry Partner of the Year – North Partner of the Year (APJ) and Migration Partner of the America and Digital Transformation Award for TCS BaNCS.
of the Year Awards. • Awarded by Siemens for the Highest Enterprise Sales Achievement for the Year 2022.
category Global Systems Integrator; and GSI Partner of • Recognized by Informatica as the Growth Global System the Year award at the AWS Summit, Bogota, Colombia. Integrator Partner of the Year 2022.
the Year 2022 award from Adobe. Days 2023: Services Partner of the Year – Americas and Breakthrough Partner of the Year – EMEA.
Trust. • Named by Saviynt as the ‘Delivery Partner of the Year’ for APAC region.
• Won Pega’s Industry Excellence Award for Financial Services at the PegaWorldiNspire 2022.
outstanding commitment to partnership and implementation of solutions.

COMMUNITY • Ranked as the most valuable Indian brand by Kantar • Named as one of the top 50 community-minded BrandZ India; TCS’ brand value rose 212% from 2020 to companies in the United States; recognized as the 2022.
and honored with the Strategic Volunteer Award for • Ranked as the second most valuable Indian company by aligning employee volunteer time and talent with its the 2022 Hurun Global 500 report.
strategic CSR programs.
• Won the Gold award in the WASH Initiative category at the Awards in the category `Collaborating with Sales’ for 6th CSR Health Impact Awards for TCS’ IoTbased smart Digital Store.
• Won a Drum Award for B2B 2022 in the category ‘Most of India’s Jal Jeevan Mission.
Effective Digital Transformation Initiative’.
Natural Capital 2022 Burgundy Private Hurun India 500 list.
• Awarded Gold at The Economic Times Human Capital Smart Metering for Utilities to Reduce CO2 Emissions Awards 2022 in the Excellence in Social Initiative under the Use Case Ideation category.
• TCS’ Digital Farming Initiatives won the NASSCOM Purpose4Life.
Enterprise Cloud Awards ‘22 in the category `Excellence in BRAND Leveraging Cloud for Sustainability’.
• TCS’ Food Digital Twin won the 2022 Vivekananda Most Admired Companies.
Sustainability Award for ‘Innovative Use of Technology for
• Ranked the second most valuable IT services brand Environmental Improvement’.
globally by Brand Finance.
• Won an award for ‘Natural Resources Conservation’ at the
• Only brand from India in the Top 50 in the 2022 Kantar Dun & Bradstreet ESG Awards 2023.
BrandZ Top 100 Most Valuable Global Brands; also ranked among the Top 10 fastest growing brands globally.
good customer service, contented workforce and strong management.

Corporate Governance Report I. Company’s Philosophy on Corporate Governance Effective corporate governance practices constitute the strong foundation on which successful commercial enterprises are built to last. The Company’s philosophy on corporate governance oversees business strategies and ensures fiscal accountability, ethical corporate behaviour and fairness to all stakeholders comprising employees, investors, customers, regulators, suppliers and the society at large. Strong leadership and effective corporate governance practices have been the Company’s hallmark inherited from the Tata culture and ethos.
transparent ethical governance, as embodied in the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC).
The Company’s corporate governance philosophy has been applicable, with regard to corporate governance.
Trading and the Code of Corporate Disclosure Practices committees that constitute the governance structure1 of (“Insider Trading Code”). The Company has in place an the organization are covered in detail in this report.
The various material aspects of corporate governance and TCS’ approach to them are discussed in the table below:
interests and drive corporate ethics, values and sustainability. Profiles of Board of Directors are available at https://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance.
Remuneration Committee2 has fostered diversity in terms of backgrounds, areas of expertise and:
• Gender: Two (22.2 per cent) of the nine Directors are women.
• Nationality: Three nationalities represented – Indian, American and Danish.
• Industry: Technology, Banking, Energy, Transportation and Academia.
1 GRI 2-9 2 GRI 2-10

Material Topic TCS’ Approach TCS’ policy on Appointment of Directors and Board Diversity can be found at https://on.tcs.com/appointment-BoD.
directors out of 9 i.e., 55.6 percent. None of the independent directors is related to each other, or to the non-independent directors. Average tenure of independent directors is 6 years.
directorships in more than seven listed entities, and none of the executive directors serves as an independent director on the Boards of more than three listed entities.
which emphasizes fairness and transparency to all stakeholders. Further a qualified, diverse and independent Board ensures that minority shareholders’ interests are protected.
global investor outreach program, through which minority shareholders can interact with the management or the Board.
through a well-publicized channel, where complaints are tracked till closure. The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee oversees the redressal of these complaints.
Avoidance of conflict of Chairmanship4 of the Board is a non-executive position, and separate from that of the Chief interest3 Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO and MD).
employee – including the executive directors – from accepting any position of responsibility, with or without remuneration, with any other organization without TCS’ prior written approval.
For the executive directors, such approval must be obtained from the Board.
business. The Company’s core values are: Leading Change, Integrity, Respect for the Individual, Excellence, and Learning and Sharing.
prohibition of bribery and corruption, recognition of employees’ freedom of association, and avoidance of conflicts of interest.
frequent communications from the leadership, reiterate the importance of the company values and the TCoC.
Customers are made aware of the TCoC principles in contract discussions, and through inclusion of specific clauses in proposals and contracts.
Policy without fear of retaliation. Information about these channels is communicated to employees as part of the mandatory training modules.
3 GRI 2-15 4 GRI 2-11
5 https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct 6 GRI 2-12

Material Topic TCS’ Approach Compliance to laws of the countries in which we operate, as well as global legislation such as Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Bribery Act, 2010, etc. are monitored through formal compliance procedures led by the Corporate compliance office. Changes to legislation are closely monitored, risks are evaluated and effectively managed across the business operations.
Committee headed by an Independent Director oversees compliance to the TCoC, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, Gift and Hospitality Policy and also to the external regulations.
Tax Strategy7 TCS is committed to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, and believes in reporting to the respective tax authorities, relevant information that is complete and accurate, in a timely manner.
the tax risk. TCS has zero tolerance towards tax evasion, or the facilitation of tax evasion, by itself or by its employees or vendors.
worldwide. Where appropriate, TCS seeks advance clearance from tax authorities on the proposed tax treatment of transactions, helping pre-empt future disputes.
and local communities, while also valuing the environment. The various sustainability topics material to TCS are overseen by the relevant Board committees, as outlined below:
management systems, auditor remuneration, compliance to policies around insider trading, whistle blower, ethics and TCoC.
exchange risks, cyber security risks, data privacy risks and Committee intellectual property infringement risks.
policy for directors, executive team and KMP, evaluation of the performance of the Board, Committees and Directors.
management. Additionally, heads of business units carry out succession planning for key functions within their units.
heads are invited to present on specific topics at Board meetings from time to time, offering an opportunity to the directors to assess their values, competencies, and capabilities.

Material Topic TCS’ Approach Building sustainable and TCS requires its suppliers to sign the TCoC upon empanelment. That includes principles on responsible supply chain protecting and safeguarding human rights, treating all persons with respect and dignity while safeguarding their rights, the abolition of forced and compulsory labor, child labor in the supply chain and strong corporate governance practices including anti-corruption and bribery and promoting fair business practices across the supply chain. TCoC also requires its suppliers to protect the environment and make conscious use of scarce natural resources in their business processes and at the same time highlighting the importance of health and safety in its workplace and expects the supplier to comply with sustainable business practices in letter and spirit in turn for its employees.
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. It works with its suppliers to ensure that they too are fully aligned with these principles.
i. As on March 31, 2023, the Company has nine Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations Directors. Of the nine Directors, seven (i.e. 77.8 and that they are independent of the management.
The composition of the Board is in conformity with with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and Regulation 17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.
Sections 149 and 152 of the Act.
• holds directorships in more than ten public meetings were held on: April 11, 2022; July 8, 2022;
companies;
• serves as Director or as independent directors in necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.
held during the year under review and at the last entities.
duties. Based on the declarations received from the has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of SEBI Independent Directors, the Board of Directors has Listing Regulations.

Name of the Director Category Number Whether Number of Number of Committee Directorship in other listed entity and DIN of Board attended Directorships in other positions held in other (Category of Directorship) Meetings last AGM Public Companies Public Companies attended held on Chairman Member Chairman Member during the June 9, FY 2023 2022
N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, 6 Yes 7 - - - 1. Tata Steel Limited @ (Chairman) Non-Executive 2. Tata Motors Limited@ DIN 00121863
3. Tata Consumer Products Limited @ 4. The Tata Power Company Limited @ 5. The Indian Hotels Company Limited @ 6. Tata Chemicals Limited @ Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, 6 Yes - - - - - (Chief Executive Officer Executive and Managing Director) DIN 06365813
N G Subramaniam (Chief Non-Independent, 6 Yes 2 1 - - 1. Tata Elxsi Limited @ Operating Officer and Executive 2. Tata Communications Executive Director) Limited@ DIN 07006215

Category of directorship held:
Video-conferencing facilities are also used to facilitate Directors travelling / residing abroad or at other locations to participate in the meetings.
vi. During FY 2023, information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been placed before the Board for its consideration.
Independent Directors, inter alia, reviewed the performance of Non-Independent Directors, Board as a whole and Chairman of the Company, taking into account the views of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
viii. The Board periodically reviews the compliance reports of all laws applicable to the Company.
ix. Details of equity shares of the Company held by the Directors as on March 31, 2023 are given below:
*includes shares held jointly with his relative The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.
x. The Board has identified the following skills/expertise/competencies fundamental for the effective functioning of the Company which are currently available with the Board:
Global Business Understanding, of global business dynamics, across various geographical markets, industry verticals and regulatory jurisdictions.
Strategy and Planning Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and experience in guiding and leading management teams to make decisions in uncertain environments.
stakeholders, maintaining board and management accountability, building long - term effective stakeholder engagements and driving corporate ethics and values.
the requisite skill sets identified by the Board as above and whether the person is a proven leader in running a business that is relevant to the Company’s business or is a proven academician in the field relevant to the Company’s business.
global in nature. The Directors so appointed are drawn from diverse backgrounds and possess special skills with regard to the industries/fields from where they come.

III. Committees of the Board i. There are six Board Committees as on March 31, 2023, details of which are as follows Name of the Extract of terms of reference Category and composition Other details Committee Audit Committee Committee is constituted in line with the Name Category • Four meetings of the provisions of Regulation 18 of SEBI Listing Keki Mistry Independent, Audit Committee Regulations and Section 177 of the Act. (Chairman) Non-Executive were held during the The terms of reference of the Committee, year under review O P Bhatt Independent, inter alia, includes: and the gap between Non-Executive two meetings did not Aarthi Non-Independent, • Oversight of financial reporting process. exceed one hundred Subramanian Non- Executive and twenty days.
Non-Executive representatives of and risk management systems.
remuneration and terms of appointment meetings.
of auditors of the Company.
Code and to supervise implementation of Committee.
the same.
Secretary is the Policy and Gift and Hospitality Policy.
implementation of the Insider Trading Code.
relating to the Insider Trading Code.
Mistry, Chairman of the Audit Committee.

Name of the Extract of terms of reference Category and composition Other details Committee Nomination and Committee is constituted in line with the Name Category • Four NRC meetings Remuneration provisions of Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing O P Bhatt Independent, were held during the Committee Regulations and Section 178 of the Act. (Chairman) Non-Executive year under review.
(“NRC”) The terms of reference, inter alia, includes: N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, • The Company Non-Executive • Recommend to the Board the setup does not have any Hanne Sorensen Independent, and composition of the Board and its Employee Stock Non-Executive
Committees. Option Scheme.
• Support the Board and Independent no. III (iii) below.
executive team or Key Managerial O P Bhatt, Chairman Personnel as well as the rest of employees. of the NRC.
• Oversee familiarization programs for Directors.
Relationship provisions of Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing Dr Pradeep Kumar Independent, SRC were held during Committee Regulations and Section 178 of the Act. Khosla (Chairman) Non-Executive the year under review.
(“SRC”) Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, The terms of reference, inter alia, includes: • D etails of Investor Executive complaints and • Consider and resolve the grievances of Keki Mistry Independent, Compliance Officer security holders. Non-Executive are provided at serial
no. III (ii) below.
Dr Pradeep Kumar Company.
Khosla, Chairman of the SRC.
(“CSR”) (Chairman) Non-Executive held during the year Committee The terms of reference of the committee, inter under review.
O P Bhatt Independent, alia, includes:
the Company were the CSR Policy.
held during the year.
• Monitor the CSR Policy.

Name of the Extract of terms of reference Category and composition Other details Committee Risk Committee is constituted in line with the Name Category • Three meetings of the Management provisions of Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing Keki Mistry Independent, RMC were held during Committee Regulations. (Chairman) Non-Executive the year under review.
(“RMC”) Don Callahan Independent, The terms of reference of the committee, • Fortnightly reports Non-Executive inter alia, includes: on management of Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, foreign exchange risks • Formulate, monitor and review risk Executive are made available to management policy and plan, inter alia, N G Subramaniam Non-Independent, the members of the
covering investment of surplus funds, Executive RMC.
cyber security risks, data privacy risks and Officer intellectual property infringements risks.
transactions and delegate the said power to such person as may deem fit.
• Capital and revenue budgets and capital members.
expenditure programmes;
• Acquisitions, divestments and business restructuring proposals;
• Senior management succession planning;
• Any other item as may be decided by the Board.
ii. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee-other details a. Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer:
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595 b. Details of investor complaints received and resolved during FY 2023 are as follows:
director, commitment, effective deployment of knowledge and expertise, integrity and maintenance of confidentiality and independence of behaviour and judgement.
9 GRI 2-13

Remuneration Policy10 Remuneration policy of the Company is designed to create a high-performance culture. It enables the Company to attract, retain and motivate employees to achieve results. Our business model promotes customer centricity and requires employee mobility to address project needs.
where the Company operates, the remuneration structure is tailored to the regulations, practices and benchmarks prevalent in the IT industry.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the salary scale approved by the Board and Members and are effective April 1, each year.
prescribed under the Act, based on the Board evaluation process considering the criteria such as the performance of the Company as well as that of the Managing Director and each Executive Director.
expenses incurred by the Directors for attending the meetings. The Remuneration policy is available on https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.
Total 1,300.00 30.60 @ As a policy, N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the Company.
@@ In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata Company.

b) Managing Director and Executive Director (` lakh) Name of Director Salary Benefits, Commission ESPS* Perquisites and Allowances Rajesh Gopinathan 173.00 243.00 2,500.00 - Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director N G Subramaniam 161.30 248.90 1,950.00 - Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director *Employee Stock Purchase Scheme The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as actuarial valuation and premium payments are done at the Company level.
Services of the Executive Directors may be terminated by either party, giving the other party six months’ notice or the Company paying six months’ salary in lieu thereof. There is no separate provision for payment of severance pay.
No. of meetings held 4 4 2 4 3 Date of meetings April 11, 2022; April 11, 2022; September 6, April 14, 2022; July 5, 2022;
i. General Meeting a. Annual General Meeting (“AGM”):
Meeting conducted through VC / OAVM 2021 June 10, 2021 3.30 p.m.

b. Extraordinary General Meeting:
No extraordinary general meeting of the members was held during FY 2023.
c. Special resolution:
Special resolution for change of place of keeping and inspection of the registers and Annual Returns of the Company was passed at the AGM held in 2022 and no special resolution was passed in the previous AGMs held in 2021 and 2020.
ii. Details of special resolution passed through postal ballot, the persons who conducted the postal ballot exercise, details of the voting pattern and procedure of postal ballot:
Secretaries, was appointed as the Scrutinizer to scrutinize the postal ballot process by voting through electronic means only (remote e-voting) in a fair and transparent manner. Details of the voting pattern are provided below:
2020, September 28, 2020, December 31, 2020, June 23, 2021, December 8, 2021, May 5, 2022, December 28, 2022 respectively issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
iii. Details of special resolution proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through postal ballot.
of the Company has been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.
VI. B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101248W/W–100022) has been appointed as the Statutory Auditors of the Company. The particulars of payment of Statutory Auditors’ fees, on consolidated basis for FY 2023 is given below:

VII. Other Disclosures Particulars Statutes Details Website link for details/ policy Related party transactions Regulation 23 of SEBI During the year all RPTs entered by the https://on.tcs.com/RPT (“RPT”) Listing Regulations Company were in the ordinary course of and as defined under business and in respect of transactions the Act with related parties under Section 2(76) of the Act, are at arm’s length basis and were approved by the members of Audit Committee including Independent Directors.
on June 9, 2022 for material RPT as per Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing Regulations.
for FY 2023 at its ensuing annual general meeting to be held on June 29,2023.
party transactions is uploaded on the website of the Company.
policy has been uploaded on the website of the Company.
Discretionary requirements Schedule II Part E The auditors’ report on financial statements of the SEBI Listing of the Company are unmodified.
quarterly presentations to the Audit Committee on their reports.

Particulars Statutes Details Website link for details/ policy Subsidiary Companies Regulation 24 of The Audit Committee reviews the https://on.tcs.com/ the SEBI Listing consolidated financial statements of the Subsidiary Regulations Company and the investments made by its unlisted subsidiary companies.
periodically placed before the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Company does not have any material unlisted subsidiary company.
‘material subsidiaries’ which is disclosed on its website.
No. D&CC/FITTC/Cir- Services (India) Limited (“CDSL”) and the 16/2002 total issued and listed equity share capital.
and the total number of dematerialized shares held with NSDL and CDSL.
and Senior Management forms part of this report.
up with a final dividend after the fourth quarter.
accumulated surplus cash has been returned to shareholders through a special dividend.

Particulars Statutes Details Website link for details/ policy Terms of Appointment of Regulation 46 of SEBI Terms and conditions of appointment/re- https://on.tcs.com/ Independent Directors Listing Regulations appointment of Independent Directors are ApptID and Section 149 read available on the Company’s website.
Workplace (Prevention, 8 of the Companies Report forming part of the Integrated Prohibition and Redressal) (Accounts) Rules, Annual Report.
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include, The Indian Express, Financial Express, Loksatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times and Sandesh.
The results are also displayed on the Company’s website www.tcs.com.
(FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website https://www.tcs.com/investor- relations. The Management Discussion and Analysis Report is a part of the Integrated Annual Report.
with general circulars dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, January 13, 2021, December 8, 2021, December 14, 2021, May 5, 2022 and December 28, 2022. For details, please refer to the Notice of this AGM.
As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and Secretarial Standard 2 on General Meetings, particulars of Directors seeking re-appointment at this AGM are given in the Annexure to the Notice of this AGM.

vi. Stock Codes/Symbol NSE : TCS
BSE : 532540 Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
viii. Market Price Data High, Low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares traded during each month in FY 2023 on NSE and BSE:
NSE BSE

xi. Places for acceptance of documents Documents will be accepted at the above address between 10.00 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. (Monday to Friday except bank holidays).
For the convenience of the shareholders, documents will also be accepted at the following branches of TCPL:
In terms of Regulation 40(1) of SEBI Listing Regulations, as amended from time to time, transfer, transmission and transposition of securities shall be effected only in dematerialized form.
Company shall credit those shares in the Suspense Escrow Demat account held by the Company. Shareholders can claim these shares transferred to Suspense Escrow Demat account on submission of necessary documentation.
The Directors and certain Company officials (including Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary) are authorized by the Board severally to approve transfers, which are noted at subsequent Board Meetings.

Number of shares Holding Percentage to Number of Percentage to total capital accounts accounts 20001-30000 84,82,523 0.23 346 0.01 30001-40000 61,77,198 0.17 177 0.01 40001- 50000 54,50,619 0.15 120 0.00 50001 -100000 2,67,46,395 0.74 371 0.01 100001-above 3,43,71,74,439 93.94 800 0.03 TOTAL 3,65,90,51,373 100.00 26,21,099 100.00
b) Categories of equity shareholding Category Number of equity shares held Percentage of holding Promoter 2,64,43,17,117 72.27 Other Entities of the Promoter Group 10,68,956 0.03 Mutual Funds 12,70,84,071 3.47 Banks, Financial Institutions, State and Central 1,96,96,625 0.53 Government Insurance Companies 20,36,77,391 5.57 Foreign Institutional Investors 46,53,36,259 12.72 NRIs, OBCs, Foreign Nationals 77,22,080 0.21 Corporate Bodies, Trusts 1,10,67,582 0.29 Indian Public and Others 17,63,09,365 4.83 Alternate Investment Fund 21,70,419 0.06 IEPF account 6,01,508 0.02 TOTAL 3,65,90,51,373 100.00
c) Top ten equity shareholders of the Company Sr. Name of the shareholders* Number of equity shares held Percentage of No. holding 1 Tata Sons Private Limited 2,64,43,17,117 72.27 2 Life Insurance Corporation of India 16,34,27,223 4.47 3 SBI Mutual Fund 3,65,24,190 1.00 4 Invesco Developing Markets Fund 3,10,72,921 0.85 5 Axis Mutual Fund 1,96,65,244 0.54 6 Government of Singapore 1,64,30,083 0.45 7 NPS Trust 1,58,20,315 0.43 8 Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund, 1,41,75,888 0.39 A Series of Vanguard International Equity Index Funds 9 Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund 1,34,57,122 0.37 10 UTI Mutual Fund 1,26,67,041 0.35 *Shareholding is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number (PAN) of the shareholder xiv. Dematerialization of shares and liquidity The Company’s shares are compulsorily traded in dematerialized form on NSE and BSE. Equity shares of the Company representing 99.98 percent of the Company’s equity share capital are dematerialized as on March 31, 2023.
Under the Depository System, the International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares is INE467B01029.
The Company has not issued any GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments in the past and hence, as on March 31, 2023, the Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments.

xvi. Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities The Company does not deal in commodities and hence the disclosure pursuant to SEBI Circular dated November 15, 2018 is not required to be given. For a detailed discussion on foreign exchange risk and hedging activities, please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
xvii. Loans and advances The Company has not given any loans and advances to firms/company in which directors are interested.
In accordance with the requirement of Regulation 34(3) and Part F of Schedule V to the SEBI Listing Regulations, details of equity shares in the suspense account are as follows:
The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as on March 31, 2023 shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such shares claims the shares.
Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividend, if not claimed for a period of seven years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF.
of transfer to unpaid dividend account shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority. The said requirement does not apply to shares in respect of which there is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining any transfer of the shares.
and the details of unclaimed dividends and shareholders whose shares are liable to be transferred to the IEPF Authority, are uploaded on the Company’s website https://on.tcs.com/unclaimed-dividend.
of the Company, in respect of which dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive years or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account, have also been transferred to the demat account of IEPF Authority.
The details of unclaimed dividends and shares transferred to IEPF during FY 2023 are as follows:
2015-16 168.93* 47,643 TOTAL 383.36 50,232
*Includes dividend and fractional shares entitlement arising out of amalgamation of erstwhile CMC Limited The Members who have a claim on above dividends and/or shares are requested to follow the below process:
1. Submit self-attested copies of documents provided in IEPF 5 helpkit, which is available on IEPF website (www.iepf.gov.in) to the Company/ Registrar and Transfer Agent (RTA).

2. After verification of the aforesaid documents submitted, Company will issue an entitlement letter.
3. File Form IEPF-5 on IEPF website and send self-attested copies of IEPF-5 form along with the acknowledgement (SRN), Indemnity bond and entitlement letter to RTA.
4. On receipt of the physical documents mentioned above, Company will submit e-Verification report, for further processing by the IEPF Authority.
Members are requested to note that no claims shall lie against the Company in respect of the dividend/shares transferred to IEPF.
The following table give information relating to various outstanding dividends and the dates by which they can be claimed by the shareholders from the Company’s RTA:
Company operates from various offices in India and abroad. The Company has a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim Industrial Estate, Karaswada, Mapusa– Bardez, Goa.

DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF CONDUCT
This is to confirm that the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its employees, including the Managing Director and Executive Directors.
In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors. These Codes are available on the Company’s website.
I confirm that the Company has, in respect of the year ended March 31, 2023, received from the Senior Management Team of the Company and the Members of the Board a declaration of compliance with the Code of Conduct as applicable to them.
For the purpose of this declaration, Senior Management Team means the Chief Financial Officer, Global Head-HR, Global Business Unit Heads, Global Head-Legal and the Company Secretary as on March 31, 2023.
Managing Director DIN: 06365813

PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To the Members of relaxations granted by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and Tata Consultancy Services Limited Securities and Exchange Board of India warranted due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we certify that the Company We have examined the compliance of the conditions of has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as Corporate Governance by Tata Consultancy Services Limited stipulated in the SEBI Listing Regulations for the year ended on (‘the Company’) for the year ended on March 31, 2023, as March 31, 2023.
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, effectiveness with which the management has conducted the 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”). affairs of the Company.
nor an expression of opinion on the financial statements of the FCS: 327 CP: 1228
Company.
UDIN: F000327E000066987

CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS (Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015) To, The Members Tata Consultancy Services Limited 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited having CIN L22210MH1995PLC084781 and having registered office at 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me/us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
March 31, 2023 have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
9. Don Callahan 08326836 January 10, 2019
*the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal.
the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
FCS No. 327 CP No. 1228 UDIN: F000327E000067053

Corporate Social Responsibility Overview in social innovation and community projects targeted the poorest In keeping with the Tata Group’s purpose-driven worldview, sections of society, and supports programs addressing basic TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities to build health and wellness, water sanitation and hygiene, conservation, self-reliance through technology while promoting the values of and disaster relief efforts across the globe.
TCS invests in addressing the most pressing needs of the adaptable for community empowerment and lasting societal community through various CSR initiatives and programs focused development.
focus on bridging gaps in access to opportunities, TCS also invests volunteering 2.8 million hours in FY 2023, impacting the lives of over 1.25 million people.

Overall, TCS empowered 4.5 million people across the world entitlements (3-4 hours), available in 12 languages – nine Indian, during the year, creating equitable and inclusive pathways for and three foreign.
for over 1.13 million learners (~60% women) and more than Key highlights: 200,000 Preraks through literacy.
community, such as security guards, domestic workers and
• GoIT continues to empower the next generation of gardeners.
Canada and ANZ learn computational thinking. benefit programs, financial systems and empowered them to have a more significant say in family and community decision-making.
difficult because she couldn’t keep track of her hard-earned
• Supported NGOs across the world through pro-bono daily income as a construction worker.
She gained basic literacy skills after joining the Literacy as Center and Cancer Institute in India.
her rights and ultimately get her dues. She can now calculate communities in need around the world.
her working hours and daily pay, create a budget, and save money.
€1.28 million through humanitarian response to the inspired other women in the village and encouraged them to Ukraine war. participate in this program.
65% of the illiterate population, and the rest is from marginalized core subjects. This is a transdisciplinary education program that communities. To address the causes of non-literacy, TCS devised transforms the way students learn.
Modules on the platform include functional literacy (8-10 regional learning requirements of the teachers from the partner hours), digital literacy (5-7 hours), and awareness on key citizen districts across India.

One of the IMF’s pioneering STEM initiative interventions, Global goIT prepares students with engaging design workshops and Innovations Project (GIP) aims to connect students and teachers custom mentorship to pursue the careers of tomorrow of from around the world as they explore and solve real-world which involve STEM and computer sciences. It uses a four- problems using computational thinking. pronged model of (1) volunteer-driven engagements, in- person or virtually, (2) seamless year-round connects via goIT This year, IMF India has launched its Season 1 of GIP, where Online, (3) SDG-focused monthly challenges and (4) Work students were asked to explore accessible and adaptive tools, experience designed to introduce students to local experts identify and problem-solve community level issues that are limiting the accessibility and inclusivity of all the learners. and opportunities. Each prong is layered with school district Teachers and students from schools like School of Scholars partnerships and mentoring by industry professionals from (Maharashtra), BGS Schools (Karnataka), Podar International TCS which helps students develop core skills and makes goIT a School (Maharashtra), Rajya Ashram Paddhati Vidyalaya (Samaj unique program.
designed more than 29,000 tech-for-good digital innovation Overall, the participants from India worked on 109 innovation prototypes.
videos over Microsoft Flip tool. Teachers were very appreciative Over 41,000 students and educators have benefited from this of the opportunity to learn and collaborate with educators program in FY 2023 globally.
around the world.
program in Saudi Arabia, Leah, a Grade 7 student, said, “I am ANZ.
interest in STEM and computational thinking. of UN SDG, students ideated solutions for good health and wellbeing, affordable and clean energy, and zero hunger.
goals. I am glad and proud of all the efforts that students and called ‘Free Supermarket’ which would help people make and teachers have put in, also that they have consciously chosen receive donations.
communities at a disadvantage. The program creates digital with modern technologies.
predicts that 80% of the jobs that will be created in the next Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) communities.
decade will require a form of mathematics and science skilling.
mentoring, technology, tools and resources required to set up a jobs.

as generating and updating documents (such as Aadhar cards, training on interview skills and access to market-facing Pan cards, and voters ID), enrolling for different government certifications and hands-on real-time project experience.
schemes, filling in online forms and cash withdrawals/deposits from the bank to fellow villagers. Since its inception, the program has:
• Improved the economic and social status of the In FY 2023, the program had 347 active digital entrepreneurs beneficiaries and their families.
workforce while creating inclusion and access for BridgeIT Case Study marginalized groups across the country.
Jharkhand, had never dreamt that one day she would be an • Increased the credibility and visibility of the training partner entrepreneur and earn an income of more than `40,000/-per institutions involved with YEP.
month. Priyanka always had a desire to have her own identity.
When she got married, she was still doing her graduation. • Enabled access for corporates to season-agnostic, industry- She continued her studies after marriage and completed her ready talent.
networking, IT automation, Data Analytics, UX, SFDC to name a few, etc.).
qualifying for affirmative action programs. Over 10,000 students have gained employment in the IT/ITES, banking, retail fields.
services, etc. Today, Priyanka not only runs a shop near her meagre income barely put food on the table residence, she also has taken up the responsibility of another for the family of five.
employing more needy people in the business. Besides, I am about it. She also lacked clarity on career goals or available job planning to buy a new scooty.” prospects.
as business communication, aptitude, computer programming scored 77.39% and got placed in December ’21.
and place model. It helps them navigate opportunities available enabled her to find her own voice and she has been following in the Indian job market with career guidance and mentoring, it all along since then.

Social Innovation Other accolades include the Emerging Social Enterprise 2021 Digital Impact Square (DISQ) is a social innovation platform award from TiE Hyderabad, winner of TATA Motor’s TACNet established in 2015 in Nashik, Maharashtra. The platform Initiative and Best Indian Social Enterprise Award by Action for encourages innovation among young employees who harness India 2019.
the power of digital technology and engage with the digital ecosystem, to develop solutions for a lasting change in society.
into emotional health. When people are in a state of well-being hail from 22 states and from over 180 colleges across India.
technologies to address the social challenges drawn from the their time better, make meaningful contributions, and be voice of citizens, domain experts, local administration, and the productive and creative.
employee engagement programs like Fit4Life, Purpose4Life and wellness tech and sustainability tech across india.
DISQ offers innovators extensive mentoring, access to and enables its employees to engage with the community for a ecosystems specific to their challenges, and a seed fund for positive impact.
and IT infrastructure, which includes a comprehensive and supportive ecosystem with domain partners for validation.
sustaining enterprises that forge solutions to the challenges to aid monitoring and auditing. It has also been building new faced in their communities by leveraging technology and features including compliance with statutory requirements.
innovation.
assures quality service to patients. TCS plays a crucial role in passionate about reimagining the agrarian landscape.
Institute, Chennai facilitated more than 117,600 new patient consultations in FY 2023.
Impact Square (DISQ), provides mobile and web-based seed models for cancer patients in India.
TCS contributes to initiatives at TTCRC through multi-omics and enable small farmers to have better market linkages.
Impact category and was amongst the selected 175 startups automation and the development of innovative digital solutions.
across country to interact with the Honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

HOPE - Hours of Purpose by Employees addressing the 17 UN SDGs, ranging from planting saplings and TCS’ growing, highly skilled and diverse workforce serves as trees, making and distributing newspaper bags, raising mental champions to build organic connects with the community health awareness and educating children in schools, to name while accelerating social impact. Opportunities for employees a few. TCSers also contribute to the Tata group’s volunteering to volunteer time include skills-based volunteering, pro bono initiatives twice a year, such as Tata Volunteering Week and Pro- support to community-based organization and social cause Engage (long-term pro bono volunteering).
causes, be it an employee’s own initiative, a TCS community #millionhoursofpurpose, by volunteering over 2 million hours in program, a TATA engagement or one with its customers. Through Q4.

function serves as an accelerator for social good and as a Volunteering for Youth Employment catalyst between purpose-driven organizations. Several studies Program (YEP) and surveys have revealed that consumers are loyal towards Rahul Pathak’s journey of volunteering organizations that are “purpose driven” and have an objective of started six years back, with him “giving back to the community.” travelling to Osmanabad around 280 kms from Pune over weekends to Business with Purpose provides opportunities for business teach the students of Terna College of leaders from customers’ organizations to meet their Engineering.
but he overcame it by using effective online teaching skills TCS and its customers live and work.
Maharashtra. In his sessions, Rahul always gives practical participated in various CSR initiatives globally in FY 2023.
Community Innovation Program that they can succeed in all aspects of their lives.
secured their dream jobs. My life suddenly seemed to have environmental impact.
to volunteer in areas impacted by Hurricane Ian, the deadliest raise funds more easily, build transparency in their operations hurricane to have hit Florida in decades. Their reasons were and work more efficiently.
previously with the military or a service organization and value’ have been generated by this program since its inception.
wanted to use that experience to help.
emergency relief to those struck by conflict, disaster, and disease.
whose qualification has lapsed, which can lead to a shortage of critical supplies that IMC beneficiaries depend on.
Business with Purpose organization has on-demand and concurrent access to vital Business with Purpose is a distinctive framework that enables information throughout the vendor database.

The company leverages its industry and social responsibility Last year, the organization responded directly to the needs of more than 18 million people in 30 countries on five continents, expertise to builds the capacity of educators and to nurture including more than 1 million people in the United States. students from marginalized communities globally. This is achieved through partnerships with the right institutions for “Being a first responder organization means our work is fast-paced and vital to vulnerable populations. Working disseminating TCS’ programs such as IMF and goIT which are in with TCS enabled us to increase the efficiency of our vendor line with nationwide goals.
raises awareness on how digital tools and innovative technology catalyzes social impact. The program focuses on convening Major partnerships in FY 2023 include:
Digital Empowers community by more than 500 individuals and Pradesh social welfare department (189 schools).
the website provides up-to-date information for forums, events and insight reports.
• Partnership with the education department to integrate 21st-century skills into textbooks and the curriculum.
disaster response. The final forum took place in February 2023, aged between 8-18, from 20 states in 8 different languages;
and the seven forums in 2022 culminated in an annual 2023 and goIT monthly challenge for the global innovator.
Summit.
The pilot of Digital Empowers Collaborative launched this year, Teachers Association.
more than 150 professional hours to develop three partnership students from schools in tribal areas.
solution concepts to improve the future of work:
Computational teaching from 2023-2024 at Tata Institute of the digital economy.
Social Sciences (TISS).
to juniors enabling the retention of knowledge from a government aided colleges.
employee resource group idea designed for a large-scale employability of graduate and undergraduate youth.
skills among the underrepresented and socio-economically hospitality.

to UNICEF, CARE, and the European Food Banks Federation The company partnered with non-profit partners like (FEBA). A matched giving campaign for the company’s UNICEF, CARE and the European Food Banks Federation to employees and networks was launched to build on the initiatives address critical needs such as access to safe drinking water of its employees across Europe. TCS employees in the region and sanitation services, benefiting over 20 million people.
totalling €260,000. This resulted in a final contribution of health and long-term resilience care (child protection, psycho- €1,260,000. social protection and temporary learning spaces) were provided.
refugees in Europe. and networks were matched up to €200,000, for a combined contribution of up to €550,000, through this.
of the upskilling needs of refugees with TCS Education Business severely affected areas of Cachar District, including the Kalain, Units. TCS worked with another non-profit organization in Katigorah, Borkhola and Salchapra blocks.
Finland that trains refugees from Ukraine as part of a program.
volunteer mapping, coupon generation and distribution at the village level, as well as relief distribution.

Business SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES I. Details of the listed entity1
1. Corporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Listed Entity:
Guidelines for Responsible Business Conduct (NGRBC) and Mumbai 400 001, Maharashtra, India.
consists of three sections:
offerings, business and operations footprint, employees, related 7. Telephone: 91 22 6778 9595 parties, CSR and transparency.
Section B covers management and process disclosures related to the businesses aimed at demonstrating the structures, 9. Financial year for which reporting is being done:
nine principles of NGRBC which are listed at the start of Section B.
1 GRI 2-1, GRI 2-3

10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where shares are listed: National Stock Exchange of India Limited and BSE Limited 11. Paid-up Capital: ₹365.91 crore 12. Name and contact details (telephone, email address) of the person who may be contacted in case of any queries on the BRSR report:
Human Resources Generic topics: TCS’ global operations, Non wholly owned subsidiaries accounting for including wholly owned subsidiaries. < 0.26% of the consolidated headcount.
Exclusions pertaining to individual disclosures Statutory topics: TCS’ India operations.
are mentioned in the respective Notes.
Environmental TCS’ global offices and delivery centers Centers where TCS does not have operational where it has operational control. control accounting for < 2% headcount.
sourced from Ultimatix, TCS’ core enterprise platform. Other supporting data is reviewed by relevant third-party assurers as part of ISO and financial audit.
specified in their Assurance Statement. The scope and basis of assurance have been described in their assurance letter. The Board was not involved in seeking this assurance.
II. Products/services5
14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
journeys. Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided in the Financial Performance Overview section of Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
15. Products/Services sold by the entity (accounting for 90% of the entity’s Turnover):
Application Development and Maintenance, Consulting and Service Integration, Digital Transformation Services, Cognitive Business Operations and Products and Platforms.
Some of the services broadly map to NIC classes 6201, 6202, 6209 and 6311.
III. Operations6
16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the entity are situated:
International NA Delivery centers – 73, Offices – 112 185 2 GRI 2-2
3 GRI 2-4 4 GRI 2-5
5 GRI 2-6 6 GRI 2-6

17. Markets served by the entity:
International (No. of Countries) 53 b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total turnover of the entity?
The contribution of exports as a percentage of TCS’ Standalone turnover is 94.3%.
public sector. In India, TCS works with departments of the Government of India, various state governments, systemically important entities and the private sector.
18. Details as at the end of Financial Year: FY 2022-23 a. Employees (including differently abled)7:
3. Total employees (D + E) 615,721 395,114 64.2 220,607 35.8 Notes:
• Based on TCS’ global headcount; excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
• Other than Permanent category includes individuals on direct TCS contracts / retainers.
b. Differently abled Employees:
employees (D + E) Note:
• Differently abled includes hearing, visual, locomotor, orthopedic and others.
Senior Management 29,933 3,981 13.3 Notes:
• Key Management Personnel (KMP) are Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director (CEO & MD), Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director (COO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Company Secretary (CS).
• Senior Management excludes Directors and KMP.
7 GRI 2-7, GRI 2-8 8 GRI 405-1

20. Turnover rate for permanent employees9 FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Permanent Employees 20.9% 21.9% 21.3% 17.3% 17.8% 17.5% 7.5% 7.5% 7.5% Note:
• Turnover rates mentioned above are for TCS’ global headcount, excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
33 Diligenta Limited Subsidiary 100 Yes 9 GRI 401-1
10 GRI 2-2

S. Name of the holding / Indicate % of shares Does the entity indicated at No. subsidiary/(A) whether held by column A, participate in the holding/ listed entity Business Responsibility initiatives Subsidiary of the listed entity? (Yes/No) 34 Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited Subsidiary 100 Yes 35 Tata America International Corporation Subsidiary 100 Yes 36 Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. Subsidiary 100 Yes 37 TCS Iberoamerica SA Subsidiary 100 No 38 TCS Solution Center S.A. Subsidiary 100 No 39 Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda Subsidiary 100 Yes 40 Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. Subsidiary 100 Yes 41 TCS Uruguay S.A. Subsidiary 100 Yes 42 Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. Subsidiary 100 No 43 Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. Subsidiary 100 Yes 44 TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. Subsidiary 100 Yes 45 TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada Subsidiary 100 No 46 MGDC S.C. Subsidiary 100 No 47 TCS Business Services GmbH Subsidiary 100 Yes 48 Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited Subsidiary 100 Yes 49 TCS Technology Solutions AG Subsidiary 100 No 50 Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. Subsidiary 100 No 51 Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD Subsidiary 100 Yes 52 Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A. Subsidiary 100 Yes VI. CSR Details 22. (i) Whether CSR is applicable as per section 135 of Companies Act, 2013: (Yes/No) Yes (ii) Turnover (in ₹) ₹225,458 crore (iii) Net worth (in ₹) ₹90,424 crore VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances 23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
group from Redressal FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22
whom complaint Mechanism in isr eceived Place (Yes/No) (If Yes,t hen Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks provide web-link complaints complaints complaints complaints for grievance filed during pending filed during pending redress policy)11 the year resolution at the year resolution at close of the close of the year year Communities Yes 0 0 - 0 0 - https://on.tcs.
Regulations 11: GRI 2-25

Stakeholder Grievance group from Redressal FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22
whom complaint Mechanism in isr eceived Place (Yes/No) (If Yes,t hen Number of Number of Remarks Number of Number of Remarks provide web-link complaints complaints complaints complaints for grievance filed during pending filed during pending redress policy)11 the year resolution at the year resolution at close of the close of the year year Employees * Yes 735 11 In Progress 190 14 - Customers Yes. 80 14 In Progress 65 9 - Escalation mechanisms are defined in individual client contracts and addressed as per TCS Quality Policy.
Partners com/WhistleBP
* Note:
Kindly refer the “Enterprise Risk Management section” in Management Discussion and Analysis SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES
This section describes the structures, policies and processes aligned to nine principles of business responsibility. These briefly are as follows:
P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner 12: GRI 3-2
13 GRI 3-3 14 GRI 201-2

P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner Disclosure Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9 Policy and management processes 1. a. Whether your entity’s policy/policies cover each principle and its Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y core elements of the NGRBCs. (Yes/No)15 b. Has the policy been approved by the Board? (Yes/No)17 Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y c. Web Link of the Policies, if available17 P1 to P9: Tata Code of Conduct 16(TCoC) P1: Whistleblower Policy17 P2: Green Procurement Policy18 P3 and P5: Employees related Policies19 P4 and P8: CSR Policy20 P6: Environmental Sustainability Policy21 2. Whether the entity has translated the policy into procedures. (Yes / Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y No)22 3. Do the enlisted policies extend to your value chain partners? (Yes/ Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y No)23 4. Name of the national and international codes/certifications/labels/ Y24 Y25 Y26 NA Y27 Y28 NA NA NA standards (e.g. Forest Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and mapped to each principle.
5. Specific commitments, goals and targets set by the entity with defined N N N N N Y30 N N N timelines, if any29.
6. Performance of the entity against the specific commitments, goals and NA NA NA NA NA Y31 NA NA NA targets along-with reasons in case the same are not met.
15 GRI 2-23 16 https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct 17 https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP 18 https://on.tcs.com/GPP 19 HR policies available to employees on Ultimatix, TCS Intranet 20 https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy 21 https://on.tcs.com/Environmental-Sustainability
22 GRI 2-24 23 GRI 2-23
24 TATA Code of Conduct 25 iQMSTM, TCS’ Integrated Quality Management System, comprehensively integrates the requirements and best practices of the latest industry models, frameworks and standards such as ISO 9001:2015, ISO 20000:2018, ISO 27001:2013, ISO 22301:2019, ISO 27701:2019, ISO 20017:2015, ISO 27018:2019, CMMI® DEV v 2.0 and CMMI® SVC v2.0; Environmental Management System Standard ISO 14001:2015, Occupational Health and Safety Management System Standard ISO 45001:2018; as well as industry domain specific standards such as AS9100 (Aerospace), TL9000 (Telecom) and ISO 13485 (Medical Devices).
on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and are a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2006.
28 ISO 14001:2015, ISO 50001:2018 29 GRI 3-3

Governance, leadership and oversight 7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)32 N G Subramaniam, COO & Executive Director, TCS33: “Our net zero goal underlines our renewed commitment to environmental stewardship. To curb emissions and limit global warming to well below 2, preferably to 1.5 degrees Celsius, compared to pre- industrial levels, all organizations will have to reimagine existing business models and aim for sustainable growth. We are in a unique position to combine our purpose-driven world view with digital innovation to not only drive our own sustainability, but also partner with customers, civil society and governments to lead and shape solutions for a sustainable future,” At the core of TCS’ strategy to reduce its carbon footprint is increased use of renewable sources of energy, and improved energy efficiency. The company’s strategy for the latter includes addition of more green buildings to the company’s real estate portfolio, reduction of IT system power usage, and the use of TCS Clever Energy™, which leverages IoT, machine learning and AI to optimize energy consumption across campuses. TCS’ Vision 25x25 is a strategic lever that delinks TCS’ business growth from campus expansion and brings down emissions related to employee commutes and business travel.
Environmental targets and achievements are part of Natural Capital section, which is a part of Integrated Annual Report.
responsible for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes Board of Directors is responsible for decision making / No). If yes, provide details35. on sustainability related issues.
06365813 Rajesh Gopinathan Member
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
requirements of relevance to the laws is provided by the CEO to the Board of principles, and, rectification of Directors.
of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No).
agency.36
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated:
All the principles are covered by a policy at TCS.
32 GRI 2-22 33 https://www.tcs.com/tcs-targets-net-zero-emissions-by-2030
34 GRI 2-13 35 GRI 2-9
36 GRI 2-5 37 EY has provided a ‘limited assurance’ on sustainability disclosures based on GRI standards
38 TUV India Pvt Ltd.

SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and
Accountable.
Essential Indicators
1. Percentage coverage by training and awareness programs on any of the Principles during the financial year#:
Employees other than BoD and KMPs 18,738 All 99% Notes:
• A ll nine principles laid down in BRSR are covered by TCS mandatory trainings and Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), which is adhered to by all employees and Directors.
• A wareness programs covering the applicable principles were held and attended by all respective committee members of the Board and/or the Board of Directors.
• * The count is based on the total number of relevant offering IDs of Virtual / Instructor Led Training programs in the learning management system, conducted in FY 2023, covering any of the nine principles.
format (Note: the entity shall make disclosures on the basis of materiality as specified in Regulation 30 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as disclosed on the entity’s website)39:
NGRBC Principle Name of the regulatory/ Amount Brief of the Case Has an appeal enforcement agencies/ (In INR) been preferred?
NGRBC Principle Name of the regulatory/ enforcement Brief of the Has an appeal agencies/ judicial institutions Case been preferred?
Imprisonment NIL
Punishment 3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ Revision preferred in cases where monetary or non- monetary action has been appealed.
4. Does the entity have an anti-corruption or anti-bribery policy? If yes, provide details in brief and if available, provide a web- link to the policy40.
Yes. The TCoC contains guidelines on anti-bribery and anti-corruption. TCS is committed to upholding the highest moral and ethical standards, and does not tolerate bribery or corruption in any form. The policy is available on the company website at:
https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct 39 GRI 2-27
40 GRI 2-23, GRI 205-2 # GRI 2-17

5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees/workers against whom disciplinary action was taken by any law enforcement agency for the charges of bribery/ corruption41:
FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 Directors NIL NIL KMPs NIL NIL Employees 1 (Under fraud) 3 (Under fraud)
Note:
• Data specific to India. Cases pertain to employees in continued employment, where investigation by law enforcement agencies is underway, pending conclusion.
6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 Number Remarks Number Remarks Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of NIL NIL NIL NIL Interest of the Directors Number of complaints received in relation to issues of Conflict of NIL NIL NIL NIL Interest of the KMPs 7. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway on issues related to fines / penalties / action taken by regulators/
law enforcement agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of interest.
Leadership Indicators
1. Awareness programs conducted for value chain partners on any of the Principles during the financial year:
2. Does the entity have processes in place to avoid/ manage conflict of interests involving members of the Board? (Yes/No) If Yes, provide details of the same.
Yes. Kindly refer to the section titled “Material aspects and TCS’ approach to them” in the Corporate Governance Report within the Integrated Annual Report.
41 GRI 205-3

PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe Essential Indicators 1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
bring down its carbon footprint by 71% versus base year 2016. 43 Capex 3,063 2,964 Investments in green buildings across locations.
Yes. TCS’ Sustainable Supply Chain policy and Green Procurement policy outline its commitment to making its supply chain more responsible and sustainable. The policies are available on TCS website:
Green Procurement policy https://on.tcs.com/GPP b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
100% of the companies’ suppliers are covered in the responsible sourcing program.
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste45.
TCS does not manufacture any product hence this question is not applicable.
collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
No. EPR is not applicable to TCS.
1. Has the entity conducted Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) for any of its products (for manufacturing industry) or for its services (for service industry)? If yes, provide details in the following format?
TCS is primarily an IT services organization and products, if any, are software products. Hence the life-cycle approach is not applicable to the company’s offerings.
Service Turnover Life Cycle Perspective by independent public domain (Yes/No). If contributed / Assessment was external agency (Yes/ yes, provide the web-link.
43 TCS Energy Management Solution – TCS AR FY 2016-17 44 GRI 308-1
45 GRI 306-2

2. If there are any significant social or environmental concerns and/or risks arising from production or disposal of your products / services, as identified in the Life Cycle Perspective / Assessments (LCA) or through any other means, briefly describe the same along-with action taken to mitigate the same46.
of its offerings. Details of the environmental footprint of TCS’ operations and mitigation steps are provided as part of disclosures under Principle 6.
3. Percentage of recycled or reused input material to total material (by value) used in production (for manufacturing industry) or providing services (for service industry).
Not applicable to TCS.
4. Of the products and packaging reclaimed at end of life of products, amount (in metric tonnes) reused, recycled, and safely disposed, as per the following format:
Not applicable to TCS.
5. Reclaimed products and their packaging materials (as percentage of products sold) for each product category.
Not applicable to TCS.
Essential Indicators
1. Details of measures for the well-being of employees47:
Number % Number % Number % Number % Number % (B) (B/A) (C) (C/A) (D) (D/A) (E) (E/A) (F) (F/A)
Permanent Employees Male 334,825 334,825 100.0 334,825 100.0 NA NA 54 0.02 334,044 99.8 Female 189,017 189,017 100.0 189,017 100.0 189,017 100.0 NA NA 188,796 99.9 Total 523,842 523,842 100.0 523,842 100.0 189,017 100.0 54 0.02 522,840 99.8 Other than Permanent Employees Male 1,256 1,256 100.0 1,256 100.0 NA NA NA NA NA NA Female 1,156 1,156 100.0 1,156 100.0 1,156 100.0 NA NA NA NA Total 2,412 2,412 100.0 2,412 100.0 1,156 100.0 NA NA NA NA Notes:
• Data specific to India.
• Paternity Leave benefit is applicable only to employees of the erstwhile TCS e-Serve Limited.
• TCS does not offer daycare facilities on its premises. TCS has location-wise tie-ups with third-party run day care centers, which employees can avail of.
• TCS monitors and tracks compliance of vendors with regard to statutory benefits and other state-wise labor rules pertaining to individuals on their payrolls working on TCS premises.
46 GRI 306-2 47 GRI 401-2

2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current Financial Year and Previous Financial Year48.
employees authority (Y/N/N.A.) employees authority (Y/N/N.A.) PF 100 Y 100 Y
Gratuity 100 Y 100 Y ESI 5 Y 6 Y
SA 6 Y 6 Y NPS 2 Y 1 Y
Notes:
• Data specific to India.
• All employees are covered under PF and Gratuity from their date of joining.
• TCS monitors and tracks compliance of vendors with regard to statutory benefits and other state-wise labor rules pertaining to individuals on their payrolls working on TCS premises.
Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (RPWD 2016 ACT)? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
Yes. All TCS-owned premises have accessibility provided as per the RPWD 2016 ACT.
Inclusion Policy, governing TCS’ India operations mapped to the RPWD 2016 ACT, governing TCS’ India operations, available to employees on the company’s local intranet.
5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees that took parental leave49.
Total 91% 90% Notes:
• Data specific to India.
• Return to work: Rate of employees who joined back from their parental leave in FY 2023.
• Retention Rate: Of the employees “Returned to Work”, % of employees those who are employed with TCS at the end of FY
2023.
• Parental leave includes maternity leave, paternity leave and adoption leave.
6. Is there a mechanism available to receive and redress grievances50 for the following categories of employees and worker? If yes, give details of the mechanism in brief.
Permanent Employees Yes, employees can use the “Employee Concerns” application to log their grievances in TCS internal portal, which is addressed by the respective stakeholders within the stipulated timelines.
Other than Permanent Yes, Non-permanent employees can raise the grievances via email to the concerned Employees stakeholders.
48 GRI 201-3 49 GRI 401-3
50 GRI 2-25

7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions recognised by the listed entity51:
FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 No. of employees No. of employees Total Total in respective in respective employees Category employees in category, who category, who % (B / A) in respective % (D/ C) respective are p art of are part of category category (A) association(s)or association(s) or
(C) Union (B) Union (D) Total Permanent 523,842 55 0.01 508,186 55 0.01 Employees -Male 334,825 55 0.02 325,241 55 0.02 -Female 189,017 0 0.00 182,945 0 0.00
Note: Data specific to India.
8. Details of training given to employees and workers52:
Total 613,194 601,880 98.2 542,998 88.6 590,662 580,301 98.2 568,775 96.3 Note:
• Data is based on TCS’ global headcount of permanent employees, and excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees53:
Total 396,529 384,116 96.9 383,072 379,829 99.2 Notes:
• Data specific to India.
• Column A represents employees eligible for annual performance review and excludes new joiners with less than a year in the company.
10. Health and safety management system:
a. Whether an occupational health and safety management system has been implemented by the entity? (Yes/ No). If yes, the coverage such system54?
facilities worldwide as on 31st March, 2023. These certified locations constitute 81% of office footprint and >94% of people footprint operating from these locations.
51 GRI 2-30 52 GRI 403-5, GRI 404-1
53 GRI 404-3 54 GRI 403-1

TCS has a well-defined Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) policy and supporting processes to ensure the safety and well- being of its employees. Safety lead and lag indicators are measured across the organization and reported. The board-level Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee reviews the company’s health and safety performance on a half yearly basis. Over 94% of the workforce is represented in joint management-employee health and safety committees that monitor, advise and drive occupational, health and safety initiatives.
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity55?
process owners are responsible to ensure adequate controls are identified and implemented to control the identified OHS risks. Mitigation plan and controls are provided to eliminate the identified hazards and risks.
c. Whether you have processes for workers to report the work related hazards and to remove themselves from such risks.
(Y/N)56 Yes. TCS has a safety incident reporting and management process to ensure that all work-related incidents (which include accidents, near-misses, unsafe conditions and unsafe acts) are reported and closed after taking necessary corrective actions. This is enabled through an online safety incident reporting tool which is accessible to all TCS employees to facilitate transparent reporting. The platform also supports incident investigation and corrective action with the perspective of eliminating hazards and preventing incidents. The awareness to employees on incident reporting is created during induction,
mandatory OHS web-based training (WBT) and communication through mailers during monthly theme on incident reporting.
these issues are resolved by the concerned action owner within prescribed timelines. They can also email their concerns to the Corporate HSE email ID and communicate with local health and safety teams.
safety at home, delivered through digital channels, hospital insurance services, occupational health services and through seamless integration of all stakeholders.
scheduled appointments and avail the services. These consulting services have helped employees to a large extent during their return to the offices after the pandemic.
medical insurance to employees and their dependents. In overseas geographies, non-occupational medical and healthcare services are provided as per the country regulations.
such as online sessions, sun salutation challenge and personalized yoga training; continued to run the Fit4Life program with daily workout sessions, walking and running challenges.
Leadership Program. Global mental health month was observed in October where two major events on ‘Resilience’ were carried out through #OneTCS events.
55 GRI 403-2 56 GRI 403-2
57 GRI 403-6

11. Details of safety related incidents58, in the following format:
of incidents including accidents, near-misses and safety observations and ensuring 100% closure of the reported incidents with appropriate corrective and preventive actions.
High consequence work-related injury or ill-health (excluding fatalities) Employees 0 0
12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy work place59.
to its success and growth aspirations as spelled out in its OHS Policy. TCS is committed to provide safe workplaces focusing on preventing injuries, illnesses, and continuously strives to eliminate hazards and reduce OHS risks.
illumination and noise. Hazard identification and risk assessment process is conducted to identify each such risk and ensure that proper mitigation measures are put in place to create a healthy and safe work environment.
Some of the mitigation measures to prevent or mitigate significant occupational health & safety impacts include,
• Provision and maintenance of fire detection, alarm and suppression systems.
• Regular site review, inspections and audits to assess safety preparedness.
• Regular mock drills for fire as well as medical emergencies.
• Provision of ergonomically designed chairs and workstations to prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSD’s) and low radiation computer monitors for better visual health.
• Digital monitoring of indoor air quality and periodic cleaning of the HVAC ducts to avoid sick building syndrome.
• Regular training on occupational health & safety training to sensitize employees on OHS aspects to inculcate a culture of safety.
• Employee engagement campaigns on health & safety topics such as fire safety, road safety, emergency evacuation, ergonomics among others.
13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees60:
FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 Filed during Pending Remarks Filed during Pending Remarks the year resolution at the year resolution at the end of the end of year year Working Conditions
581 0 NIL 40 0 NIL Health & Safety
Notes:
• Human rights related complaints disclosed under Principle 5.
• The sharp increase in complaints YoY is due to the increase in number of employees working from office in FY 2023.
58 GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10 59 GRI 403-2, GRI 3-3, GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10
60 GRI 2-25

14. Assessments for the year61:
parties) Health and safety practices TCS has 127 locations globally certified as compliant with ISO 45001:2018, OHS Standards.
100% of TCS offices have been audited during FY 2023 by qualified internal auditors at TCS.
audits. In FY 2023, 41 offices have undergone ISO 45001:2018 audits by TUV Nord for occupational health and safety (external auditor).
safety) in FY 2023 for offices in India. There were 13 third party audits conducted on HSE on behalf of customers.
15. Provide details of any corrective action taken or underway to address safety-related incidents (if any) and on significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health & safety practices and working conditions62.
necessary corrective and preventive actions. Defensive driving focus and behavioral based safety practices have been emphasized as corrective measures.
2. Provide the measures undertaken by the entity to ensure that statutory dues have been deducted and deposited by the value chain partners.
TCS monitors and tracks the compliance of value chain partners locally and centrally. Every month administration teams at each center upload the applicable, verified compliance documents in the company’s compliance tracking system for central monitoring.
TCS ensures that monthly statutory dues are remitted to respective PF / ESI / LWF etc. authority by the contractors and proof of the same is produced to the company on a periodic basis.
in Q11 of Essential Indicators above), who have been are rehabilitated and placed in suitable employment or whose family members have been placed in suitable employment63:
been placed in suitable Employment FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22
Employees 0 0 0 0 4. Does the entity provide transition assistance programs to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment? (Yes/ No) - No 61 GRI 3-3
62 GRI 403-10 63 GRI 403-9, GRI 3-3

5. Details on assessment of value chain partners64:
Working Conditions of Conduct (SCoC) are included in sourcing module in RFP template for digital acceptance by all suppliers/ vendors who are considered for evaluation.
team ensures that SCoC acceptance is done by vendors and all compliances are in place for which a tracking system is maintained.
TCS also conducts periodic audits/review of processes/documents of on-boarded vendors who have contractual agreement.
6. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from assessments of health and safety practices and working conditions of value chain partners64.
The company conducts regular H&S audits for high-risk vendors such as caterers, transport vendors, and bottled water vendors.
Any findings during these audits are tracked to closure. For example, if any vehicle provided by a transport vendor is found non- compliant to the TCS safety standards and guidelines, it is immediately removed from the roster.
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity65.
sustainable strategies for the short, medium and long term. Stakeholder engagement also helps to manage risks and opportunities in business operations. The key stakeholders identified in consultation with the company’s management are:
customers, employees, shareholders, academic institutions, staffing firms, other suppliers, technology partners and collaborators, industry bodies, governments, NGOs, local communities, regulators and society at large.
Some other stakeholders that TCS closely engages with – such as industry analysts, equity analysts, and the news media –are proxies for other named stakeholders – i.e. customers, shareholders, and society at large, respectively.
meetings). Based on mutual convenience and need, the engagement may be scheduled as needed, or pre-scheduled on a periodic basis, or ongoing (e.g. website, social media).
Community events requirements 64 GRI 414-2
65 GRI 2-29 66 GRI 2-29

Stakeholder Whether Channels of Communication Frequency of Engagement Purpose and scope of Group identified as (Email, SMS, Newspaper, (Annually/ Half yearly/ engagement including key Vulnerable & Pamphlets, Advertisement, Quarterly / others – please topics and concerns raised Marginalized Community Meetings, specify) during such engagement Group (Yes/ Notice Board, Website), No) Other Investors and No As needed: Press releases • Quarterly: Financial • Educating the investor Shareholders and press conferences; statements in IndAS community about TCS email advisories; in- and IFRS; earnings call; integrated value creation person meetings; investor exchange notifications; model and business conferences; non-deal press conferences strategy for the long term roadshows; conference calls • Continuous: Investors • Helping investors voice page on the TCS their concerns regarding website company policies,
• Annual: Annual General reporting, strategy, etc.
survey); long-service awards; sales meets;

Stakeholder Whether Channels of Communication Frequency of Engagement Purpose and scope of Group identified as (Email, SMS, Newspaper, (Annually/ Half yearly/ engagement including key Vulnerable & Pamphlets, Advertisement, Quarterly / others – please topics and concerns raised Marginalized Community Meetings, specify) during such engagement Group (Yes/ Notice Board, Website), No) Other Governments; No As needed: Governance • Continuous: • Understand areas for NGOs; local RFIs/RFPs; presentations; Annual General sustainable development communities; project meetings; reviews; Meeting, Quarterly • Communicate TCS’ media, industry calls and meetings; surveys; Reports and Annual performance and strategy analysts, society consultative sessions; field Report, Earnings • Manage TCS’ brand and at large visits; due diligence; calls Conference Call, Media reputation;
releases; press conferences; insight into public and media interviews and quotes; business concerns;
1. Provide the processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Board on economic, environmental, and social topics or if consultation is delegated, how is feedback from such consultations provided to the Board.
own judgment, to prioritize and arrive at a list of material topics with significant economic, environmental, or social impacts on TCS’ business, reputation, and operations. The TCS management shares feedback with the Board on these issues.
topics (Yes / No). If so, provide details of instances as to how the inputs received from stakeholders on these topics were incorporated into policies and activities of the entity.
Yes, TCS’ ESG strategy on material topics uses inputs gathered during stakeholder consultations.
3. Provide details of instances of engagement with, and actions taken to, address the concerns of vulnerable/ marginalized stakeholder groups.
fundamental to ensure CSR Project success. Post program implementation, surveys and questionnaires capture the feedback which is then duly implemented.

PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights Essential Indicators
1. Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format67:
Total Employees 526,254 522,195 99.2 510,197 506,097 99.2 Note:
• Data specific to India.
2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees, in the following format68:
No. % (B / No. % (C / No. % (E/ No. % (F/ (B) A) (C) A) (E) D) (F) D)
Permanent Male 334,827 554 0.2 334,273 99.8 325,241 726 0.2 324,515 99.8 Female 189,015 533 0.3 188,482 99.7 182,945 557 0.3 182,388 99.7 Other than Permanent Male 1,256 242 19.3 1,014 80.7 1,070 110 10.3 960 89.7 Female 1,156 332 28.7 824 71.3 941 169 18.0 772 82.0 Note:
• Data specific to India.
3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format69:
(c) Senior 18,996 35.99 3,131 34.17 Notes:
on public sites. Gaps in median salary between genders at middle and senior levels is due to a higher proportion of women at the junior ends of each cohort. TCS’ focused diversity and inclusion programs are expected to narrow this gap over time.
67 GRI 2-24 68 GRI 405-2
69 GRI 2-19, GRI 2-21 70 GRI 202-1, GRI 405-2

• Data is specific to India.
Governance Report)
• Key Managerial Personnel include CEO, COO, CFO and Company Secretary.
contributed to by the business71? (Yes/No) - Yes
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues72.
company’s Whistle Blower policy. Representations made in the reporting avenues are reviewed and appropriate action is taken on substantiated violations.
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees73:
FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 Filed during Pending Remarks Filed during Pending Remarks the year resolution at the year resolution at the end of year the end of year Sexual Harassment 49 8 Review in 36 16 Review in progress progress Discrimination at 3 0 Closed 1 0 Closed workplace Child Labour 0 0 0 0 0 NIL Forced Labour/ 0 0 0 0 0 NIL Involuntary Labour Wages 0 0 0 0 0 NIL Other human rights 0 0 0 0 0 NIL related issues
Note:
• Data specific to India
7. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in discrimination and harassment cases74.
anyone reporting good faith concerns. Anyone involved in targeting such a person raising such complaints will be subject to disciplinary action.
8. Do human rights requirements form part of your business agreements and contracts? (Yes/No)75 Yes 71 GRI 2-13
72 GRI 2-25 73 GRI 406-1
74 GRI 2-25 75 GRI 2-23, GRI 2-24

9. Assessments for the year:
Discrimination at workplace observations by local statutory / third parties in India in FY 2023.
10. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments at Question 9 above.
Leadership Indicators
1. Details of a business process being modified / introduced as a result of addressing human rights grievances/complaints.
human rights, resulting in an impeccable track record of never facing any human rights grievances or complaints. Further, TCS continually gathers feedback and keeps track of developments in the regulatory area to further strengthen existing processes.
2. Details of the scope and coverage of any human rights due-diligence conducted.
and local laws including collective bargaining agreements through its policies and standards. While empaneling suppliers, the company carries out extensive due diligence on various ESG areas, including human rights.
3. Is the premise/office of the entity accessible to differently abled visitors, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016?
Yes. TCS believes in accessibility for all.
4. Details on assessment of value chain partners:
Sexual Harassment All value chain partners are expected to adhere to the TCoC, which does not tolerate any form of harassment, whether sexual, physical, verbal or psychological.
However, TCS does not conduct any formal assessment for the same.
Child Labour 100% of value chain partners were assessed.
5. Provide details of any corrective actions taken or underway to address significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments at Question 4 above.
There were no significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments.

PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and restore the environment Essential Indicators
1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity, in the following format76:
2022 to 55.2% in FY 2023. Electricity consumption across TCS operations increased by 33.3% y-o-y due to increased resumption of operations (compared to FY 2022) and inclusion of additional offices.
company owned vehicles, cooking gas used in cafeteria and diesel used in diesel generators (mainly used as a back-up source for power shortages).
Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy intensity are provided below:
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Not Applicable to TCS.
3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water78, in the following format:
have been designed for higher water efficiencies, 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting. The detailed break up is given below.
(iv) Seawater / desalinated water NIL NIL 76 GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3, TC-SI-130a.1.
77 There was a marginal change of 0.4% in fuel consumption data reported in FY 2022, which has now been corrected in the table above.
78 GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5, TC-SI-130a.2.

Parameter FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 (v) Others – Rainwater utilized 56,730 75,314 Total volume of water withdrawal (in kilolitres) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) 2,288,688 1,440,959 Total volume of water consumption (in kilolitres) 2,082,781 1,319,696 Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water consumed / turnover) 0.0000009 0.0000007 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
4. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation79.
sewage treatment and reuse, and rainwater harvesting. All new campuses have been designed for 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting.
5. Please provide details of air emissions (other than GHG emissions) by the entity, in the following format:
TCS being an IT consulting services and business solutions company does not have significant air emissions other than those arising from the operation of diesel generator sets during power outages.
hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, etc. Stack emission monitoring is conducted as per the frequency required under the Consent To Operate (CTO) the generator sets.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
(State Pollution Control Boards) as per consent conditions. These reports are also verified during internal and external audits to check compliance.
6. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) & its intensity, in the following format80:
carbon footprint in FY 2023. The remaining 84.8% are from indirect emissions, referred to as Scope 2 emissions, associated with purchased electricity. The breakup is provided as required in the table below.
79 GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2 80 G RI 305-1; GRI 305-2, GRI 305-4. Scope 1 emissions have been calculated using the emissions factors published by the DEFRA conversion factors 2022. For Scope 2 emissions – for India, the source is the emission factor is the CO2 Baseline Database for the Indian Power Sector, User Guide, Version 18.0, December 2022, published by the Central Electricity Authority of India. For Australia, Canada, North America, and UK emission factors specific to the region published by local authorities are used. For other countries IEA v4 emission factors 2022 and GHG protocol/ IEA 2022
have been used.

Parameter Unit FY 2022-2381 FY 2021-22 Total Scope 1 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, Metric tonnes of 20,972 16,68482 HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) CO2 - CO2 tCO2e 4,780 2,813 - CH4 tCO2e 2.73 1.38 - N20 tCO2e 39.8 28.3 - HFC tCO2e 16,150 13,841 Total Scope 2 emissions (Break-up of the GHG into CO2, CH4, N2O, Metric tonnes of 117,265 141,045 HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) CO2 equivalent Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions per rupee of tCO2e/Million 0.05 0.08 Turnover INR Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
7. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas emission? If Yes, then provide details83.
Yes. TCS had set a target to reduce its absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 70% by 2025 and become net zero by 2030.
The first part was achieved in FY 2023 through a combination of green infrastructure, green IT, energy efficiency and renewable energy.
through the Business Ambition for 1.5°C campaign. This is published on SBTi website and can be viewed at Companies taking action - Science Based Targets. TCS is working on the next steps to developing company targets for validation by SBTi.
Green Infrastructure and IT enabled operational efficiency:
of office area, are certified green buildings by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). These make up over 64.6% of TCS’ total real estate portfolio in India.
infrastructure. Initiatives in building infrastructure included energy efficiencies in HVAC systems, Uninterrupted Power Supply (UPS), LEDs, motors, and chillers.
Flow (VRF) systems for 24X7 on variable load, oilless centrifugal chillers like magnetic or ceramic bearing chillers and chiller plant manager.
• Energy efficient UPS included Insulated Gate Bipolar Transistors (IGBT) based UPS with high efficiency and modular UPS.
power distribution from sub-station to different buildings, use of 11 kV centrifugal chillers and elevators with energy efficient and gearless motors.
81 There are some inclusions and modifications in estimating carbon emissions during FY 2023 when compared to FY 2022.
grid electricity (including RE) for the first time for years 2013-14 to 2021-22. As TCS procures electricity from the India grid, which is mix of conventional and renewable energy, the emission factor of 0.715 tCO2/ MWh is considered more appropriate.
82 Corrected Scope 1 emissions data for FY 2022 due to minor changes in fuel consumption data.

Green IT:
areas covered under green IT initiatives include IT energy optimization in data center and equipment rooms. In addition, green attributes are considered in every asset procurement. TCS’ data centers have a weighted average PUE of 1.66.
Platform (TCUP) IoT platform, which forms the backbone enabling visualization of data acquired from various locations and facilities’ energy meters and sensors.
Renewable Energy:
at Siruseri (as an extension to the previous 12 MWp PPA). The renewable energy procurement has resulted in an increase in renewable energy use to 55.2% of total energy use.
Carbon Neutrality:
The company became carbon neutral across Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in North America, UK and Ireland (except Diligenta), Europe, Asia Pacific (excluding Japan), Latin America, and Middle East & Africa in FY 2023.
8. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following format85:
84 TCFD Metrics and Targets A 85 GRI 306-3; 306-4; 306-5

-Plastic Waste 46 38 -Construction & Demolition waste 61.6 (ii) Re-used 194,316 (iii) Other recovery operations - - Total 196,918 2,044.6 For each category of waste generated, total waste disposed by nature of disposal method (in metric tonnes) Category of waste (i) Incineration - Biomedical waste 0.8 1.6 - Non-hazardous waste 61.7 36.4 (ii) Landfilling - Non-hazardous waste 1,612 1,112 - Construction & demolition waste 519 - (iii) Other disposal operations - Total 2,193.5 1,150 ** 100% of the regulated waste (hazardous wastes, e-waste, battery waste), plastic wastes, paper & packaging wastes are disposed through recycling. The generated quantities, if remaining at the end of the financial year for disposal, are stored at the facilities and recycled through approved/ authorized vendors.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
manage such wastes.86 Not applicable. TCS does not manufacture anything and therefore does not use any hazardous or toxic chemicals in its processes.
biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format87:
located in the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) developed by the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDCO). All necessary environmental clearances have been obtained for the campus.
No. operations / clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
1 TCS Kalinga Park, Chandaka Industrial Software Consultancy Yes, the conditions of Environmental Clearance have Estate, Bhubanewar, Odisha Services been complied with.
86 GRI 306-2; GRI 3-3 87 GRI 304-1

11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year88:
and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format89:
Yes, TCS has complied with applicable environmental law/regulations / guidelines applicable in India. No fine/penalty/action was initiated against the entity under any of the applicable environmental laws/regulation/guidelines.
1. Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the following format:
This information has been covered in Principle 6, Q1 of the Essential Indicators90.
2. Provide the following details related to water discharged91:
- Tertiary treatment 67,180 86,073 88 GRI 413-1, GRI 303-1
89 GRI 2-27 90 GRI 302-1
91 GRI 303-4

Parameter FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 (v) Others - No treatment 0 0 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment 0 0 Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 159,690 105,289 Note: This data pertains to India only.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
3. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in kiloliters):
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the following information92:
(ii) Nature of operations: Software and IT operations (iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:

Parameter FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 (v) Others - No treatment 0 0 - With treatment – please specify level of treatment 0 0 Total water discharged (in kilolitres) 23,170 10,693 Note:
This data pertains to India only.
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
4. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the following format93:
Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
93 G RI 305-3, GRI 305-4; There are some inclusions and modifications in estimating scope 3 carbon emissions during FY 2023 when compared to FY
2022.
94 Scope 3 emissions:
vehicles, and furniture items. Until FY 2022, TCS used the DEFRA 2012, spend based emission factors, which are outdated. In view of adopting updated emission factors, there was a reduction in category 1 by 89% and category 2 by 82%.
FY 2023. Earlier in FY 2022, only WTT of electricity procured was considered. The increase in scope of reporting contributes to 3.5% of the total emissions under category 3.
wastes, batteries etc.,). Emission factors are taken from DEFRA 2022 for the transport emissions based on vehicle type and weight. The increase in scope of reporting contributes to 31% of the total emissions under category 4.
• Category 5: No change in approach in FY 2023. The emissions are based on disposal mechanisms (e.g., recycling, reuse, landfill) for different categories of waste (plastic, metal, e-waste, batteries, food waste, garden waste etc.,) and have been computed based on emission factors from DEFRA 2022.
various geographies during business travel. Relevant emission factors are taken from DEFRA 2022. The increase in scope of reporting contributes to 0.5% of the total emissions under category 6.
and FY 2022, this was insignificant to be included under this category. The occupancy in overseas offices has been minimum during FY 2023 due to majority of the associates working from home and therefore considered insignificant, and not included in the emissions.

5. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 of Essential Indicators above, provide details of significant direct & indirect impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention and remediation activities95.
of the sanctuary so that the possibility of • Plantation of native/ parking area are switched off after 11 elephants crossing the trench is eliminated indigenous plants, pm.
hence, any impact of TCS operations on medicinal and spice • Protection of native/medicinal, plant wildlife is not expected. However, TCS has garden, butterfly species as well as butterfly species.
• Internal initiatives within its campus Vermicomposting and generate organic manure and it is reused towards biodiversity conservation organic waste converter for landscaping.
and enhancement • Provision of rainwater • 100% treatment and recycling of
• Internal initiatives towards water and harvesting structure wastewater inside the premises.
waste management and sewage treatment • Groundwater recharging pits for plant (STP) enriching the water table.
annual basis. TCS campuses across India are home to over 590+ flora species and 180+ fauna species. 10 species of IUCN category trees i.e., Endemic, Endangered, Threatened, Vulnerable and Rare species, are protected within TCS campuses.
or reduce impact due to emissions / effluent discharge / waste generated, please provide details of the same as well as outcome of such initiatives, as per the following format:
hour operations
7. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan? Give details in 100 words/ web link.
and communication with all stakeholders. The framework is fully compliant and certified to ISO 22301:2019, CMMI-SVC and is integrated with TCS quality management system for consistent deployment across the organization.
95 GRI 304-2; GRI 304-3

TCS has Emergency Preparedness Plans (EPP) for disasters such as earthquake, floods, cyclones etc in its internal portal. The plan outlays the responsibilities of action owners, plan description including precautions to be taken, evacuation procedures and post incident action plan which would need to be followed at locations facing the emergency scenario.
identifies business impact of loss/ interruption or disruption, and determines appropriate continuity strategy for the same. The associated potential risks are identified, assessed and appropriate response is devised to handle respective risks.
8. Disclose any significant adverse impact to the environment, arising from the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard97.
No significant adverse impact envisaged from TCS’ value chain.
9. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts98.
chain partners in FY 2023. Through this platform, TCS plans to support its suppliers with engagement and guidance to help them improve their sustainability performance.
spend) across sectors and geographies. Of the top 80% suppliers by spend, 20% suppliers have already completed sustainability assessment for environment criteria.
addition, TCS collaborates with bilateral/ multilateral international chambers, based out of India, on multiple technology and trade related matters.
Not Applicable 97 GRI 308-2
98 GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2 99 GRI 2-28
100 GRI 2-28

Leadership Indicators
1. Details of public policy positions advocated by the entity:
1. Special Economic • I ndustry meetings with Ministry of Yes As and when Zones (SEZ) reforms Electronics and Information and required.
introduced by GOI: Technology (MeitY), Department of Recommendations Commerce, Ministry of Finance (MoF).
compliances and organized by industry associations reporting in SEZs such as CII, FICCI, NASSCOM.
relevant government departments, trade associations on request.
2. GOI’s endeavor to • Multiple engagements with Partially As and when facilitate Free Trade governments to share concerns over required.
Agreements (FTAs) totalization, mobility of resources, to leverage India’s amongst other challenges.
mobility of STEM talent and other issues related to taxation.
3. Promoting trade in • Engaged through the Board of Yes As and when https://www.tcs.
goods and services: Trade wherein Rajesh Gopinathan, required.
policy-positions- Policy (FTP) (released Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
by the Ministry of inputs and recommendations on Commerce, GOI the sectoral opportunities for India.
4. Data regulation • Participated in the consultation Yes As and when policies by the GOI: process facilitated by MeitY. required.
the Digital Personal applicability, definitions amongst Data Protection Bill other recommendations.
(DPDPB), 2022
5. Ongoing • Engaging with multiple Ministries Yes As and when engagements and relevant working committees. required.
B. Digital India Act Bill and on topical issues such as C. National Data cybersecurity.

PRINCIPLE 8 Businesses should promote inclusive growth and equitable development Essential Indicators 1. Details of Social Impact Assessments (SIA) of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year101.
2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in the following format:
Not applicable for TCS.
3. Describe the mechanisms to receive and redress grievances of the community102.
TCS Regional Leaders are connected at the ground level and provide feedback for implementation if any. Post program implementation, surveys and questionnaires capture the feedback which is duly implemented.
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from suppliers103:
FY 2022-23 FY 2021-22 Directly sourced from MSMEs / small producers 12.9% 8.4% Sourced directly from within the district and neighboring districts 91.6% 91.0% Leadership Indicators 1. Provide details of actions taken to mitigate any negative social impacts identified in the Social Impact Assessments
(Reference: Question 1 of Essential Indicators above):
Not applicable for TCS.
101 GRI 413-1 102 GRI 2-25, GRI 413-1
103 GRI 204-1

2. Provide the following information on CSR projects undertaken by your entity in designated aspirational districts as identified by government bodies:
Jharkhand Note:
• The amount mentioned above is for the entire program across all districts (not only the aspirational ones).

3. a) Do you have a preferential procurement policy where you give preference to purchase from suppliers comprising marginalized /vulnerable groups? (Yes/No) While procuring goods/services from MSME vendors, TCS treats MSME vendors at par with non MSME vendors. However, TCS follows more preferential payment norms for MSME vendors.
b) From which marginalized /vulnerable groups do you procure?
Please refer to the above answer c) What percentage of total procurement (by value) does it constitute?
4. Details of the benefits derived and shared from the intellectual properties owned or acquired by your entity (in the current financial year), based on traditional knowledge:
5. Details of corrective actions taken or underway, based on any adverse order in intellectual property related disputes wherein usage of traditional knowledge is involved.
Not Applicable
6. Details of beneficiaries of CSR Projects:
Essential Indicators
1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback104.
TCS’ customers are large enterprises, typically Fortune 1000 or Global 2000 corporations. They are provided with multiple mechanisms to report complaints or feedback.
action plan to resolve it. The team engages with the customer, to validate the action plan and regularly updates customers about the progress of action taken.
TCS has a structured approach to receive feedback from customers periodically. Such feedback is analyzed for improvements and action plans are implemented to ensure utmost customer satisfaction.
the data protection and privacy officers is available in TCS website at https://www.tcs.com/privacy-policy or as otherwise notified to the customers from time to time.
2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all products/service that carry information about:
Not Applicable 104 GRI 2-25

3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Unfair Trade Practices NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL NIL
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Not applicable.
5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy105.
TCS has information security policy which covers for cybersecurity and is approved by top management.
TCS has deployed cybersecurity framework which is aligned with NIST CSF106.
TCS’ commitment to privacy is espoused in the company’s Global Privacy Policy. This is accessible from TCS website.
services; cyber security and data privacy of customers; re-occurrence of instances of product recalls; penalty / action taken by regulatory authorities on safety of products / services.
Please refer to the answer to Q.5 above. All the initiatives explained above has ensured that TCS did not have any incidents leading to regulatory issues / penalties.
1. Channels / platforms where information on products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if available).
www.tcs.com
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers about safe and responsible usage of products and/or services.
Not applicable, as TCS does not have any products/services that can entail safety issues or a usage abuse.
3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of essential services.
Each customer relationship in TCS has a business continuity mechanism to handle any disruption of services/products and a suitable communication plan.
Not Applicable
5. Provide the following information relating to data breaches:
a. Number of instances of data breaches along-with impact: As a data fiduciary, TCS has not had any data breach incidents in FY 2023.
b. Percentage of data breaches involving personally identifiable information of customers: 0% 105 GRI 2-23
106 National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) CSF is Cybersecurity framework published by NIST (Standards Institute in USA) which enables organization to improve Cybersecurity for its critical infrastructure.

Consolidated Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report To the Members of Tata Consultancy Services Limited Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter referred to as the Holding Company”) and its subsidiaries (Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2023, and the consolidated statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), consolidated statement of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter referred of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements to as “the consolidated financial statements”).
a true and fair view in conformity with the accounting principles evidence obtained by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide generally accepted in India, of the consolidated state of affairs a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated these matters.
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Group inter alia engages in Fixed-price contracts, Our audit procedures included the following:
based on the Group’s estimate of contract costs. and the associated contract assets, unearned and deferred revenue We identified revenue recognition of fixed price balances.
contracts where the percentage of completion is • Involvement of our Information technology (‘IT’) specialists, as used as a key audit matter since - required:
risk around the accuracy and existence of operate and tested system controls over computation of revenue revenues recognised considering the customised recognised;
 Tested the IT controls over appropriateness of cost and revenue significant inputs of IT systems;
reports generated by the system;

The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit • application of revenue recognition accounting  Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of resources and standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts budgeting systems which prevent the unauthorized recording/ with customers) is complex and involves a changes to costs incurred; and number of key judgments and estimates in  Tested on a random sampling basis the controls relating to the mainly identifying performance obligations, estimation of contract costs required to complete the respective related transaction price and estimating the projects.
accounting standard including – obligation;
• these contracts may involve onerous obligations ascribed transaction price;
 For testing the Group’s computation of the estimation of contract foreseeable losses to be made by the Group;
costs and onerous obligations, if any. We:
progress (Contract assets), related to these management personnel;
contracts are recognised on the balance sheet.
considered in estimating the remaining costs to complete the contract;
documentation to identify possible changes in estimated costs to complete the remaining performance obligations;
• inspected underlying documents and performed analytics to determine reasonableness of contract costs.
frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application assurance conclusion thereon.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for the consolidated financial statements by the Management and Consolidated Financial Statements Board of Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.

the ability of each company to continue as a going concern, a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the in the consolidated financial statements or, if such respective Board of Directors either intends to liquidate the disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to but to do so. the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in going concern.
Financial Statements statements represent the underlying transactions and Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could that we identify during our audit.
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where throughout the audit. We also: applicable, related safeguards.
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
financial controls with reference to financial statements in the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls. paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used 2. A. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report, to and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and the extent applicable, that:
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid of accounting in preparation of consolidated financial consolidated financial statements.

have been kept so far as it appears from our by the Holding Company during the year ended examination of those books. 31 March 2023. There are no amounts which are required to be transferred to the Investor c. The consolidated balance sheet, the Education and Protection Fund by the Subsidiary consolidated statement of profit and loss Companies incorporated in India during the year (including other comprehensive income), the ended 31 March 2023.
other sources or kind of funds) by the specified under Section 133 of the Act.
director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act. security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
our opinion and to the best of our information and understanding, whether recorded in writing according to the explanations given to us:
security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate financial statements.
Beneficiaries.
appropriate in the circumstances, nothing 31 March 2023.

provided under (i) and (ii) above, contain the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 any material misstatement. is not applicable.
e. The interim dividend declared and paid by the C. With respect to the matter to be included in the Holding Company during the year and until the Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
applies to payment of dividend. subsidiary companies incorporated in India have not paid any remuneration to its directors during the year.
the Board of Directors of the Holding Company other details under Section 197(16) of the Act which have proposed final dividend for the year which are required to be commented upon by us.
the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 dividend.

Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) (xxi) In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the Companies (Auditor’s Report) Order, 2020 of the Holding Company did not include any unfavourable answers or qualifications or adverse remarks. In respect of the following entities the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by its auditor till the date of principal auditor’s report:

Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the with reference to financial statements and their operating aforesaid consolidated financial statements under Clause (i) of effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial controls with Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 reference to financial statements included obtaining an understanding of internal financial controls with reference to (Referred to in paragraph 2A(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating Opinion effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
referred to as “the Holding Company”) as of and for the year of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud ended 31 March 2023, we have audited the internal financial or error.
companies, as of that date. opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to financial statements.
that were operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and consolidated financial statements.
under Section 143(10) of the Act, to the extent applicable to an of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

Consolidated Balance Sheet (` crore) As at As at Note March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 ASSETS
Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 10(a) 10,230 10,774 Capital work-in-progress 10(a) 1,234 1,205 Right-of-use assets 9 7,560 7,636 Goodwill 10(b) 1,858 1,787 Other intangible assets 10(c) 867 1,101 Financial assets Investments 8(a) 266 223 Trade receivables Billed 8(b) 149 145 Unbilled 199 55 Loans 8(e) 173 311 Other financial assets 8(f) 2,149 2,253 Income tax assets (net) 2,583 1,983 Deferred tax assets (net) 17 3,307 3,708 Other assets 10(d) 2,806 2,023 Total non-current assets 33,381 33,204 Current assets Inventories 10(e) 28 20 Financial assets Investments 8(a) 36,897 30,262 Trade receivables Billed 8(b) 41,049 34,074 Unbilled 8,905 7,736 Cash and cash equivalents 8(c) 7,123 12,488 Other balances with banks 8(d) 3,909 5,733 Loans 8(e) 1,325 6,445 Other financial assets 8(f) 1,319 1,390 Income tax assets (net) 8 11 Other assets 10(d) 9,707 10,151 Total current assets 1,10,270 1,08,310 TOTAL ASSETS 1,43,651 1,41,514
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 8(k) 366 366 Other equity 90,058 88,773 Equity attributable to shareholders of the Company 90,424 89,139 Non-controlling interests 782 707 Total equity 91,206 89,846 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 6,203 6,368 Other financial liabilities 8(g) 353 572 Employee benefit obligations 13 536 677 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 17 792 590 Unearned and deferred revenue 1,003 1,110 Total non-current liabilities 8,887 9,317 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 1,485 1,450 Trade payables 10,515 8,045 Other financial liabilities 8(g) 9,068 7,687 Unearned and deferred revenue 3,843 3,635 Other liabilities 10(f) 4,892 8,392 Provisions 10(g) 345 1,411 Employee benefit obligations 13 4,065 3,810 Income tax liabilities (net) 9,345 7,921 Total current liabilities 43,558 42,351
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,43,651 1,41,514

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (` crore) Year ended Year ended Note March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Revenue from operations 12 2,25,458 1,91,754 Other income 13 3,449 4,018 TOTAL INCOME 2,28,907 1,95,772
Expenses Employee benefit expenses 14 127,522 107,554 Cost of equipment and software licences 15(a) 1,881 1,163 Finance costs 16 779 784 Depreciation and amortisation expense 5,022 4,604 Other expenses 15(b) 36,796 29,980 TOTAL EXPENSES 1,72,000 1,44,085
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 56,907 51,687 Tax expense Current tax 17 14,757 13,654 Deferred tax 17 (153) (416)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE 14,604 13,238 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 42,303 38,449
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI) Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss R emeasurement of defined employee benefit plans 350 261 N et change in fair values of investments in equity shares carried at fair value (2) (4) through OCI Income tax on items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (75) 19 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss N et change in fair values of investments other than equity shares carried at fair (679) (516) value through OCI N et change in intrinsic value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (25) (37) N et change in time value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 32 (34) E xchange differences on translation of financial statements of foreign operations 655 20 Income tax on items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 236 196 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES) 492 (95) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 42,795 38,354
Profit for the year attributable to:
42,303 38,449 Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
492 (95) Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:

LATIPAC ERAHS
YTIUQE .A
ta sa ecnalaB latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC ta sa ecnalab detatseR latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC ta sa ecnalaB 3202 ,13 hcraM raey eht gnirud 2202 ,1 lirpA srorre doirep roirp ot eud 2202 ,1 lirpA 663 - 663 - 663 )erorc `( ta sa ecnalaB latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC ta sa ecnalab detatseR latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC ta sa ecnalaB 2202 ,13 hcraM *raey eht gnirud 1202 ,1 lirpA srorre doirep roirp ot eud 1202 ,1 lirpA 663 )4( 073 - 073 .)m(8 etoN refeR* )erorc `( YTIUQE
REHTO .B
latoT -noN ytiuqE emocni evisneherpmoc rehto fo smetI sulprus dna sevreseR ytiuqe gnillortnoc ot elbatubirtta stseretni sredloherahs ngieroF evreser gnigdeh wofl hsaC tnemtsevnI yrotutatS deniateR laicepS lareneG latipaC latipaC yn e a h p t m fo oC n y o e c ti v n a r e e l r s s r n e u a r c rt e e u m la iT v ci s e n u i l r a t v nI no e ti v a r u es la e v r er evreser sgninrae e t n n o e Z e m v c t r i s e m e s v o e n n r i o -e c r E evreser no e ti v p r m es e e d r er evreser 084,98 707 377,88 981,2 )35( 72 884 261 851,87 782,7 - 044 57 2202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 303,24 651 741,24 - - - - - 741,24 - - - - raey eht rof tfiorP 294 )1( 394 956 52 )91( )744( - 572 - - - - )sessol( / emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO 597,24 551 046,24 956 52 )91( )744( - 224,24 - - - - emocni evisneherpmoc latoT )014,14( )36( )743,14( - - - - - )743,14( - - - - dnediviD )52( )71( )8( - - - - - )8( - - - - stseretni gnillortnoc-non fo esahcruP - - - - - - - - )083,8( 083,8 - - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS ot refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er - - - - - - - - 858,3 )858,3( - - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS morf refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er - - - - - - - )91( 91 - - - - sevreser ot refsnarT 048,09 287 850,09 848,2 )82( 8 14 341 227,47 908,11 - 044 57 3202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB 837,68 576 360,68 731,2 )72( 65 828 704 685,97 835,2 72 634 57 1202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 944,83 221 723,83 - - - - - 723,83 - - - - raey eht rof tfiorP )59( )23( )36( 25 )62( )92( )043( - 082 - - - - )sessol( / emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO 453,83 09 462,83 25 )62( )92( )043( - 706,83 - - - - emocni evisneherpmoc latoT )573,31( )85( )713,31( - - - - - )713,31( - - - - dnediviD )94( - )94( - - - - - )94( - - - - serahs ytiuqe fo kcab-yub rof sesnepxE )291,4( - )291,4( - - - - - )291,4( - - - - fo kcab-yub sdrawot ytilibail no xaT serahs ytiuqe )699,71( - )699,71( - - - - - )000,81( - - 4 - serahs ytiuqe fo kcab-yuB - - - - - - - - )704,9( 704,9 - - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS ot refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er - - - - - - - - 856,4 )856,4( - - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS morf refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er - - - - - - - )542( 272 - )72( - - sevreser ot refsnarT 084,98 707 377,88 981,2 )35( 72 884 261 851,87 782,7 - 044 57 2202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB ,2202 dna 3202 ,13 hcraM dedne sraey eht rof sgninrae deniater fo trap a sa desingocer si )xat fo ten( snalp tfieneb eeyolpme denfied fo tnemerusaemer no erorc 082` dna erorc 572` fo niaG .ylevticepser .sesoprup defiiceps rof dleh notiadnuoF SCT dna stsurt ot gniniatrep ,ylevticepser ,2202 dna 3202 ,13 hcraM ta sa erorc 957,1` dna erorc 106,1` sedulcni )sgninrae deniater yliramirp( ytiuqe latoT

Nature and purpose of reserves (e) Retained earnings (a) Capital reserve This reserve represents undistributed accumulated The Group recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, earnings of the Group as on the balance sheet date.
(b) Capital redemption reserve of applicable laws and will be utilised in accordance with As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve the said laws.
will be reclassified to retained earnings and profit and loss (c) General reserve respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
reclassified subsequently to statement of profit and loss. be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
acquiring new assets for the purpose of its business as per comprehensive income and is presented within equity in the terms of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961. the foreign currency translation reserve.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (` crore) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year 42,303 38,449 Adjustments for:
Net cash generated from operating activities 41,965 39,949 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (` crore) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 37 31 Interest received 3,080 2,700 Dividend received 13 4 Net cash generated from / (used in) investing activities 39 (897) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities (1,515) (1,417) Interest paid (779) (698) Dividend paid (41,347) (13,317) Dividend paid to non-controlling interests (63) (58) Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account - (180) Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account 18 162 Expenses for buy-back of equity shares - (49) Tax on buy-back of equity shares (4,192) - Buy-back of equity shares - (18,000) Advance towards purchase of non-controlling interests - (24) Net cash used in financing activities (47,878) (33,581) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (5,874) 5,471 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 12,488 6,858 Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 509 159 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 7,123 12,488 Components of cash and cash equivalents Balances with banks In current accounts 2,114 2,211 In deposit accounts 4,999 10,277 Cheques on hand -* -* Cash on hand -* -* Remittances in transit 10 -* 7,123 12,488
*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.
from disposal / redemption of investments include `161 crore and `87 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, held by trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 1) Corporate information of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and value to be cash equivalents.
partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses of foreign subsidiaries is the currency of the primary in their transformation journeys. The Group offers a economic environment in which the entity operates.
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at March foreign currencies are not retranslated.
the consolidated financial statements have been discussed The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial in the respective notes.
The Company consolidates all entities which are controlled 2) Statement of compliance by it.
Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as affect the entity’s returns by using its power over relevant amended from time to time. activities of the entity.
3) Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements have been the date control commences until the date control ceases.
at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and services.
between market participants at the measurement date. All eliminated in full on consolidation.
indirect method, whereby profit or loss is adjusted for the in equity and attributed to shareholders of the Company.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements exchange rates. Translation adjustments have been where possible, but where this is not feasible, a reported as foreign currency translation reserve in the degree of judgement is required in establishing fair statement of changes in equity. When a foreign operation values. Judgements include considerations of inputs is disposed off in its entirety or partially such that control, such as liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative in assumptions about these factors could affect the amount of exchange differences related to that foreign reported fair value of financial instruments.
periods presented. carrying amount of deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting period.
in preparation of its consolidated financial statements: of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the depreciation expense in future periods.
(c) Impairment of goodwill financial statements.
regulatory conditions. The estimated cash flows are under employee benefits note.
cost of capital based on the historical market returns The Group evaluates if an arrangement qualifies to of comparable companies. be a lease as per the requirements of Ind AS 116.
Identification of a lease requires significant judgement.
liabilities recorded in the balance sheet cannot be applicable discount rate.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that statements to be measured in a way that involves option; and periods covered by an option to terminate measurement uncertainty. The Group does not expect this the lease if the Group is reasonably certain not to amendment to have any significant impact in its financial exercise that option. In assessing whether the Group statements.
cancellable period of a lease. for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
6) Recent pronouncements of the net assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard recognised as capital reserve.
The amendments require companies to disclose their non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in material accounting policies rather than their significant equity of subsidiaries.
impact in its financial statements. assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded in shareholders’ equity.
Estimates and Errors value measured on initial recognition of financial asset or The amendments will help entities to distinguish between financial liability.
estimates if accounting policies require items in financial and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents subsidiaries which are approved by their respective The Group considers all highly liquid investments, which Board of Directors. The policies provide written are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are principles on the use of such financial derivatives subject to an insignificant risk of change in value to be cash consistent with the risk management strategy of the equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances Company and its subsidiaries.
cost if these financial assets are held within a business instrument and hedged item based on the currency, whose objective is to hold these assets in order to collect amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
comprehensive income reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in the Financial assets are measured at fair value through other statement of profit and loss.
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal other comprehensive income and accumulated under amount outstanding and selling financial assets. the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
subsequent changes in the fair value of equity investments of an option and designates as hedging instruments not held for trading in other comprehensive income. only the change in intrinsic value of the option.
fair value through other comprehensive income on initial into the statement of profit and loss when the related recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable hedged items affect profit and loss.
interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of ineffective.
its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue cost.
forward, currency options and futures contracts as statement of profit and loss.
hedge instruments in respect of foreign exchange risks.
These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The Group uses hedging instruments that are a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements through a loss allowance. The Group recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract assets and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a financing transaction. In determining the allowances for doubtful trade receivables, the Group has used a practical expedient by computing the expected credit loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision matrix. The provision matrix takes into account historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for forward looking information. The expected credit loss allowance is based on the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance rates used in the provision matrix. For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are measured at an amount equal to the 12-months expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.
(a) Investments Investments consist of the following:
Mozido LLC 82 76 FCM LLC 62 57
Taj Air Limited 19 19 Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corporation 7 7 Less: Impairment in value of investments (134) (123) Investments carried at amortised cost Government bonds and securities (quoted) 188 187 Corporate bonds (quoted) 42 - 266 223 Investments – Non-current includes `229 crore and `187 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts held for specified purposes.
Investments – Current includes `68 crore and `100 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility and with manager to the buy-back amounting to `1,650 crore and `3,560 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
Aggregate value of impairment of investments 134 123 Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
Treasury bills - 990 Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are as follows:
1,00,00,000 USD 1 Mozido LLC 82 76 15 USD 5,00,000 FCM LLC 62 57
1,90,00,000 INR 10 Taj Air Limited 19 19 5,00,000 PHP 100 Philippine Dealing System Holdings 7 7 Corporation Less: Impairment in value of investments (134) (123) 36 36 The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through OCI is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Trade receivables – Billed Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
Considered good 149 145 Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Trade receivables - Billed – Current (` crore) As at As at March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Trade receivables - Billed 41,244 34,253 Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed (297) (219) Considered good 40,947 34,034 Trade receivables - Billed 343 286 Less: Allowance for doubtful trade receivables - Billed (241) (246) Credit impaired 102 40 41,049 34,074 Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
49,954 Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
7,123 12,488
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Balances with banks in current accounts include `8 crore and `32 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts held for specified purposes.
(d) Other balances with banks Other balances with banks consist of the following:
Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of investments, margin money for derivative contracts, unclaimed dividends and liquidity backstop as a part of regulatory requirements.
(e) Loans Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
such inter-corporate deposits as per regulations applicable to them. Inter-corporate deposits include `932 crore and `978 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (f) Other financial assets Other financial assets consist of the following:
Interest receivable includes `66 crore and `34 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
(g) Trade Payables Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
10,515 Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (h) Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited (merged with the Company) which, on refund by tax authorities, is payable to the seller.
(i) Financial instruments by category The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
- - - 141 27,483 27,624 Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `1,016 crore, with original maturity period within 24 months.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
- - 22 106 23,994 24,122 Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `6,377 crore, with original maturity period within 36 months.
due to their nature in each of the periods presented. Fair value measurement of lease liabilities is not required. Fair value of investments carried at amortised cost is `5,587 crore and `1,672 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and consists of the following three levels:
• Level 1 — Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 — Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
part using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy approximate their fair value because there is a wide range of possible fair value measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
- 128 - 128 Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets is as follows:
The Group’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the nature of the business, a large portion of the costs are denominated in Indian Rupee. This exposes the Group to currency fluctuations.
guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the Group uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally a bank.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges:
Canadian Dollar - - - 25 137 (1)
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is as follows:
`47,500 crore and `46,392 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net gain of `13 crore and `158 crore.
do not qualify for hedge accounting have been recognised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) include loss of `112 crore and gain of `111 crore transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
transferred to the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2024. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2023.
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on Group’s other comprehensive income on account of appreciation / depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (l) Financial risk management The Group is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Group has a risk management policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus of the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of foreign currency exchange rate risk.
the countries and economic environment in which the Group operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.
movement in the functional currencies of the various operations of the Group against major foreign currencies may impact the Group’s revenue in international business.
The Group evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the respective functional currencies of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries.
income and equity. Further the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Group as disclosed in note 8(k).
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes by approximately `713 crore for the year ended March 31, 2023.
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2022:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 10% appreciation / depreciation of the respective functional currency of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries with respect to various foreign currencies would result in increase / decrease in the Group’s profit before taxes by approximately `635 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.
The Group’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Group is not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals for credit.
the Group’s total bank deposits as at March 31, 2023. None of the other financial instruments of the Group result in material concentration of credit risk.
total of the carrying amount of balances with banks, bank deposits, investments, trade receivables, loan, contract assets and other financial assets.
The Group’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade receivables and contract assets as at March 31, 2023 and 2022.
• Geographic concentration of credit risk Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
Geographical concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is allocated based on the location of the customers.
The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, was `126 crore and `123 crore respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful trade receivables is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Group consistently generated sufficient cash flows from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as at:
(m) Equity instruments The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the following:
and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share in the previous year. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on March 29, 2022.
equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
264 264
*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements V. Equity shares movement during 5 years preceding March 31, 2023 • Equity shares issued as bonus The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained earnings amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to `106 crore in the quarter ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders through postal ballot.
total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on March 29, 2022.
total paid up equity share capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on January 6, 2021.
total paid up equity share capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on September 26, 2018.
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Total 2,64,43,17,117 72.27% 2,64,43,17,117 72.27% - Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative standalone price of the lease component and the aggregate standalone price of the non-lease components.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements incentives received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset or restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the Group recognises any remaining amount of the re- measurement in statement of profit and loss.
term of 12 months or less and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers to allocate the consideration in the contract.
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Group is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) Additions for Net carrying the year ended amount as at March 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Leasehold land 100 774 Buildings 1,357 6,586 Leasehold improvements - 23 Computer equipment 4 81 Software licences 145 133 Vehicles 16 32 Office equipment 2 7 1,624 7,636 Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
1,634 1,560 Interest on lease liabilities is `492 crore and `519 crore for for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
The Group incurred `318 crore and `277 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
The total cash outflow for leases is `2,538 crore and `2,228 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, including cash outflow for short term and low value leases.
The Group has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of future cash outflows for such extension periods is `786 crore and `773 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Lease contracts entered by the Group majorly pertain for buildings taken on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course.
The Group does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.
over their estimated useful lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for its intended use.
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Capital work-in-progress • Capital work-in-progress ageing Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
658 212 42 322 1,234 Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
• Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment on an annual basis and all the projects are executed as per rolling annual plan.
impairment losses, if any. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or when events or circumstances indicate that the implied fair value of goodwill is less than its carrying amount.
impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Goodwill consists of the following:
reasonable assumptions, did not identify any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the CGU would decrease below its carrying amount.
to different CGUs individually immaterial) has been evaluated based on the cash flow forecasts of the related CGUs and the recoverable amounts of these CGUs exceeded their carrying amounts.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Other intangible assets Intangible assets purchased including acquired in business combination, are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.
Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software licences and customer-related intangibles.
Following table summarises the nature of intangibles and their estimated useful lives:
Customer-related intangibles 3 years Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of its economic useful life.
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
Intangible assets consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The estimated amortisation for the years subsequent to March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(d) Other assets Other assets consist of the following:
2,806 2,023 Advances to related parties, considered good, comprise:
Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited 1 -
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) As at As at March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Considered doubtful Advance to suppliers 2 2 Other advances 4 4 Less: Allowance on doubtful assets (6) (6) 9,707 10,151 Advance to related parties, considered good comprise:
Titan Company Limited 1 -
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Non-current – Others includes advance of `177 crore and `271 crore towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Contract fulfillment costs of `967 crore and `809 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, have been amortised in the consolidated statement of profit and loss. Refer note 12 for changes in contract assets.
and components is determined on a weighted average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Group includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
Inventories consist of the following:
28 20
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(f) Other liabilities Other liabilities consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (g) Provisions Provisions consist of the following:
11) Other equity Other equity consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) As at As at March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Statutory reserve Opening balance 162 407 Transfer to retained earnings (19) (245) 143 162 Investment revaluation reserve Opening balance 488 828 Change during the year (net) (447) (340) 41 488 Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 8(k)) Opening balance (26) 29 Change during the year (net) 6 (55) (20) (26) Foreign currency translation reserve Opening balance 2,189 2,137 Change during the year (net) 659 52 2,848 2,189 90,058 88,773 12) Revenue recognition The Group earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Group offers a consulting- led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the Group expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
• Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts expended, number of transactions processed, etc.
• Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Group is standing ready to provide services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over the period of performance.
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method .
• Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Group recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent.
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue also excludes taxes collected from customers.
The Group’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The Group assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer to benefit independently from such deliverables.
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct performance obligations.
the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.
as unbilled receivables (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of time is required, as per contractual terms.
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there are billings in excess of revenues.
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based payments and / or milestone based progress payments. Invoices are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Group recognises an onerous contract provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
performance obligation, or transaction price of an existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of services, industry verticals and geography.
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
2,25,458 1,91,754 Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical and geography has been included in segment information (Refer note 19).
allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised corresponds to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based and event based contracts.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in currency rates, tax laws etc).
out of which 53.17% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year and the balance thereafter. No consideration from contracts with customers is excluded from the amount mentioned above.
Changes in contract assets are as follows:
Balance at the end of the year 5,831 4,419 Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
Balance at the end of the year 4,846 4,745 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
Revenue recognised 2,25,458 1,91,754 The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service level credits, etc.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 13) Other income Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Other income consist of the following:
3,449 4,018 Interest income comprise:
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds) 169 4 Dividend income comprise:
unvested, is recognised as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and (b) when the entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
The Group provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund (Company managed fund) to its employees which are treated as defined benefit plans.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to such benefits.
The Group provides benefits such as superannuation, provident fund (other than Company managed fund) and foreign defined contribution plans to its employees which are treated as defined contribution plans.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Short-term employee benefits All employee benefits payable wholly within twelve months of rendering the service are classified as short-term employee benefits. Benefits such as salaries, wages etc. and the expected cost of ex-gratia are recognised in the period in which the employee renders the related service. A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid when there is a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date using the Projected Unit Credit Method.
Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:
1,27,522 1,07,554 Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
employment or on termination of employment of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days’ salary payable for each completed year of service. Vesting occurs upon completion of five continuous years of service. The Company manages the plan through a trust.
Trustees administer contributions made to the trust. Certain overseas subsidiaries of the Company also provide for retirement benefit pension plans in accordance with the local laws.
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Net periodic gratuity / pension cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
plan assets Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) Year ended March 31, 2022 Domestic Domestic Foreign Foreign Total plans plans plans plans Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes (20) - (13) (2) (35) in demographic assumptions Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes (166) - (55) (25) (246) in financial assumptions Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes (2) 1 34 18 51 in experience adjustments Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (188) 1 (34) (9) (230) liability Remeasurement - return on plan assets 5 - (36) - (31) excluding amount included in interest income (183) 1 (70) (9) (261) The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
at March 31, 2023. The Group is expected to contribute `55 crore to defined benefit plan obligations funds for the year ending March 31, 2024 comprising domestic component of `8 crore and foreign component of `47 crore.
salary increase. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the consequences of the strategic investment policies are analysed in terms of risk and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within this study.
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after year ended March 31, 2023 as follows:
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered provident fund.
contribution plan as the obligation of the employer is limited to the monthly contributions made to the fund. The contributions made to the fund are recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
Net excess / (shortfall) - - The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and corporate bonds.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of interest guarantee under the deterministic approach are as follows:
The Group expensed `1,628 crore and `1,383 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards provident fund.
makes monthly contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Group recognises such contributions as an expense when incurred. The Group has no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
The Group expensed `394 crore and `383 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards Employees’ Superannuation Fund.
The Group expensed `2,109 crore and `1,796 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution plans.
15) Cost recognition Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified according to their nature.
receivables and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are aggregation of costs which are individually not material such as commission and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
(a) Cost of equipment and software licences Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
1,881 1,163
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following:
16) Finance costs Finance costs consist of the following:
17) Income taxes Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year.
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
current tax payable by the Company and its subsidiaries in India is Indian income tax payable after taking credit for tax relief available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
The current income tax expense for overseas subsidiaries has been computed based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary in the respective jurisdiction in which it operates.
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
differences associated with investments in subsidiaries where timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
those temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be realised.
The income tax expense consists of the following:
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at Indian statutory income tax rate to income tax expense reported in consolidated statement of profit and loss is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Tata Consultancy Services Limited benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax holidays are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under the SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or gains derived from export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profits or gains for a further period of five years and 50% of such profits or gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfilment of certain conditions. From April 1, 2011, profits from units set up under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2023 are as follows:
3,118 153 171 (975) 48 2,515 Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2022 are as follows:
3,164 416 254 (737) 21 3,118 Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
of certain foreign subsidiaries, business losses can be carried forward indefinitely unless there is a substantial change in the ownership.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Unrecognised deferred tax assets relate primarily to business losses and tax credit entitlements which do not qualify for recognition as per the applicable accounting standards. These unexpired business losses will expire based on the year of origination as follows:
recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be realised.
has not been recognised, as it is the intention of Tata Consultancy Services Limited to reinvest the earnings of these subsidiaries for the foreseeable future.
of `318 crore and `318 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, not included above, the Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
jurisdictions it operates in. The Group has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that any consequent income tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
to fiscals 2017 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation generally applies to fiscal 2018 and earlier.
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The Company did not have any potentially dilutive securities in any of the years presented.
evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, in deciding how to allocate resources and assessing performance. The Group’s chief operating decision maker is the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The Group has identified business segments (‘industry vertical’) as reportable segments. The business segments comprise:
1) Banking, Financial Services and Insurance, 2) Manufacturing, 3) Retail and Consumer Business, 4) Communication, Media and Technology, 5) Life Sciences and Healthcare and 6) Others such as Energy, Resources and Utilities, s-Governance and Products.
Revenue and expenses directly attributable to segments are reported under each reportable segment. Expenses which are not directly identifiable to each reporting segment have been allocated since associated revenue of the segment or manpower efforts.
All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable expenses.
practicable and any forced allocation would not result in any meaningful segregation. Hence assets and liabilities have not been identified to any of the reportable segments.
Summarised segment information for the years ended March 31,2023 and 2022, is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Information regarding geographical revenue is as follows:
2,25,458 1,91,754 Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
Information regarding geographical non-current assets is as follows:
Geographical non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, goodwill, other intangible assets, income tax assets and other non-current assets) are allocated based on the location of the assets.
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
The Group has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,543 crore and `1,439 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, for purchase of property, plant and equipment.
• Direct tax matters Refer note 17.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements • Indirect tax matters The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with tax authorities mainly relating to treatment of characterisation and classification of certain items. The Company and its subsidiaries have demands amounting to `568 crore and `568 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, from various indirect tax authorities which are being contested by the Company and its subsidiaries based on the management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
Claims aggregating `277 crore and `291 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, against the Group have not been acknowledged as debts.
in the Court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to and download of their confidential information and use thereof in the development of the Company’s product MedMantra.
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge of `822 crore (US $100 million) award and `1,645 crore (US $200 million) in punitive damages.
approached the Supreme Court seeking review of the Order of the Appeals Court which was denied by the Supreme Court on March 21, 2022.
Credit provided as security, towards compensatory damages awarded by the District Court and confirmed by the Appeals Court, already provided for in the earlier years.
Company has filed an appeal on November 16, 2022, in the Appeals Court to reduce the punitive damages awarded by the District Court, which is pending.
Pursuant to encashment of the Letter of Credit towards compensatory damages, the value of Letter of Credit made available to Epic stands reduced to `1,250 crore (US $152 million).
of comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiary.
The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could be claimed by counter parties.

PM 68 91.0 - - 68 91.0 163 73.0 00.15 00.15 aidnI detimiL seigolonhceT egdE-C 7 20.0 - - 7 20.0 68 90.0 00.47 00.47 aidnI detimiL enilnOahaM 29 12.0 - - 29 12.0 942 62.0 00.001 00.001 aidnI lanotianretnI evreS-e
SCT detimiL )161( )63.0( - - )161( )63.0( 603,1 43.1 00.001 00.001 aidnI notiadnuoF
SCT ngieroF 68 91.0 )83( 64.32 421 82.0 525,1 65.1 00.001 00.001
.K.U detimiL atnegiliD 538 78.1 - - 538 68.1 763,1 04.1 00.001 00.001 adanaC secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .cnI adanaC 069 51.2 )2( 32.1 269 51.2 246,1 86.1 00.001 00.001
.A.S.U lanotianretnI aciremA ataT notiaroproC 872 26.0 - - 872 26.0 110,1 40.1 00.001 00.001 eropagniS secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .dtL etP cfiicaP aisA 79 22.0 - - 79 22.0 564 84.0 00.001 00.001 muigleB secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT muigleB 792 66.0 82 )82.71( 962 06.0 408 28.0 00.001 00.001 ynamreG secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT HbmG dnalhcstueD 964 50.1 - - 964 50.1 080,3 61.3 00.001 00.001 sdnalrehteN secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT
VB sdnalrehteN 891 44.0 - - 891 44.0 609 39.0 00.001 00.001 nedewS secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT
BA egirevS 34 01.0 - - 34 01.0 341 51.0 00.001 00.001 ailartsuA detimiL ytP
SNF SCT
471 93.0 - - 471 93.0 608,1 58.1 00.001 00.001 yaugurU AS aciremaorebI SCT
72 60.0 - - 72 60.0 94 50.0 00.001 00.001 acirfA htuoS secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .dtL )YTP(
)acirfA( )2( - - - )2( - 53 40.0 00.001 00.001 rataQ secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .C.L.L
rataQ 1 - - - 1 - 92 30.0 00.001 00.001 .K.U
KU secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT detimiL

TP aisenodnI 28 81.0 2 )32.1( 08 81.0 721 31.0 00.001 00.001 senippilihP secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .cnI )senippilihP( 1 - - - 1 - 6 10.0 00.001 00.001 dnaliahT secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT detimiL )dnaliahT( - - - - - - 87 80.0 00.001 00.001 ylatI secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .l.r.s ailatI 35 21.0 - - 35 21.0 811 21.0 00.001 00.001 nellepaC secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT ed
.D.G( .A.S
gruobmexuL )gruobmexuL 332 25.0 62 )50.61( 702 64.0 448 68.0 00.001 00.001 dnalreztiwS secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .dtL dnalreztiwS - - - - - - 4 - 00.001 00.001 airtsuA secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT HbmG hcierretsO )5( )10.0( - - )5( )10.0( - - 00.001 - kramneD secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT SpA kramnaD 34 01.0 - - 34 01.0 121 21.0 00.001 00.001 niapS eD secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .A.S anapsE 91 40.0 - - 91 40.0 53 40.0 00.001 00.001 lagutroP secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT ,laossepinU )lagutroP( adatimiL 04 90.0 61 )88.9( 42 50.0 )763( )83.0( 00.001 00.001 ecnarF secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT ecnarF 31 30.0 2 )32.1( 11 20.0 431 41.0 00.001 00.001 aibarA iduaS secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT aibarA iduaS 15 11.0 74 )10.92( 4 10.0 67 80.0 00.001 00.001 ynamreG HbmG secivreS ssenisuB SCT 534 89.0 041 )34.68( 592 66.0 617 37.0 00.001 00.001 ynamreG GA
snotiuloS ygolonhceT SCT

)YTP( )acirfA htuoS( )4( )10.0( - - )4( )10.0( 73 40.0 00.001 00.001 anihC snotiuloS laicnaniF
SCT .dtL ,.oC gnijieB 43 80.0 - - 43 80.0 47 11.0 00.001 00.001 ailartsuA snotiuloS laicnaniF
SCT detimiL ytP ailartsuA 61 40.0 - - 61 40.0 62 30.0 00.001 00.001 airagluB secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT DOOE airagluB 711 62.0 - - 711 52.0 923 43.0 00.001 00.001 yaugurU .A.S retneC notiuloS
SCT 101 32.0 - - 101 32.0 042 52.0 00.001 00.001 yaugurU
.A.S yaugurU
SCT 4 10.0 - - 4 10.0 5 10.0 00.001 00.001 antinegrA secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .A.S antinegrA 58 91.0 - - 58 71.0 604 24.0 00.001 00.001 lizarB secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT adtL lisarB oD 183 48.0 11 )97.6( 073 38.0 051,1 81.1 00.001 00.001 ocixeM secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT
.V.C eD
,.A.S ocixeM eD 7 20.0 1 )26.0( 6 10.0 95 60.0 00.001 00.001 ocixeM
.C.S CDGM 47 61.0 - - 47 51.0 443 33.0 00.001 00.001 elihC elihC senoisrevnI
SCT adatimiL 38 81.0 - - 38 91.0 824 24.0 00.001 00.001 elihC secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT
.A.S elihC 7 20.0 - - 7 20.0 02 10.0 00.001 00.001 alametauG secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT
.A.S ,alametauG 84 01.0 )1( 26.0 94 11.0 021 11.0 00.001 00.001 rodaucE
RETNEC NOITULOSATAT
.A.S 3 10.0 - - 3 10.0 592 92.0 - - aidnI stsurT 566,44 00.001 )261( 00.001 728,44 00.001 085,79 00.001
LATOT )078,1( 456 )425,2( )473,6( gnisira stnemtsujdA )a notiadilosnoc fo tuo gnillortnoc-noN )b stseretni seiraidisbus naidnI )2( - )2( )31( detimiL enilnOTPA )3( - )3( )41( detimiL enilnO
PM

LATOT 046,24 394 741,24 424,09 LATOT :setoN a rof .dtL ,.oC )anihC( secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT ni tseretni pihsrenwo %8.6 lanotiidda deriuqca .dtL etP cfiicaP aisA secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT ,2202 ,81 yaM nO .1 .yraidisbus denwo yllohw a ti gnikam ybereht erorc 52` fo notiaredisnoc esahcrup .2202 ,72 yluJ .f.e.w detadiuqil SpA kramnaD secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .2

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 22) Related party transactions The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Group’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Group routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
Transactions and balances with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
Transactions with related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
21 298 956 - 1,275 Balances payable to related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Material related party transactions are as follows:
Tata Digital Private Limited 502 269 Material related party balances are as follows:
Jaguar Land Rover Limited 482 379 Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.
entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Group (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
24) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `13 crore and `12 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
subject rules are notified. The Company and its Indian subsidiaries will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
26) On May 18, 2022, Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. acquired additional 6.8% ownership interest in Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd. for a purchase consideration of `25 crore thereby making it a wholly owned subsidiary.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 27) On March 16, 2023, Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd., acquired control of 100 % equity interest in TCS Financial Solutions Beijing Co., Ltd., from TCS Financial Solutions Australia Pty Limited. The entities are engaged in the business of developing and selling computer software and providing information technology services. The transaction has been accounted as combination of entities under common control. There is no impact in the consolidated financial statements of the Group as the entities are under the same parent.
28) Tata Consultancy Services Danmark ApS liquidated w.e.f. July 27, 2022.
final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2021 and an amount of `21.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for the year ended March 31, 2022.
Company have proposed a final dividend of `24.00 per share in respect of the year ended March 31, 2023 subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately `8,782 crore.

Standalone Financial Statements Independent Auditor’s Report To the Members of Tata Consultancy Services Limited Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the standalone financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the “Company”) which comprise the standalone balance sheet as at 31 March 2023, and the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive income), standalone statement of changes in equity and standalone statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
of the Company as at 31 March 2023, and its profit and other obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our comprehensive loss, changes in equity and its cash flows for the opinion on the standalone financial statements.
year ended on that date.
Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued these matters.
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Company inter alia engages in Fixed-price Our audit procedures included the following:
input method based on the Company’s estimate of implemented by the Company for recording and computing revenue and contract costs. the associated contract assets, unearned and deferred revenue balances.
We identified revenue recognition of fixed price 2. Involvement of our Information technology (‘IT’) specialists, as required:
used as a Key Audit Matter since – and tested system controls over computation of revenue recognised;
risk around the accuracy and existence reports generated by the system;
customised and complex nature of these contracts and significant inputs of IT systems;

The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit 2. application of revenue recognition accounting iii. Tested the controls pertaining to allocation of resources and standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from Contracts budgeting systems which prevent the unauthorized recording/ with customers) is complex and involves a changes to costs incurred; and number of key judgments and estimates mainly in identifying performance obligations, iv. Tested on a random sampling basis the controls relating to the related transaction price and estimating the estimation of contract costs required to complete the respective future cost-to-completion of these contracts, projects.
3. these contracts may involve onerous i. Evaluated the identification of performance obligations and the obligations which requires critical assessment ascribed transaction price;
Company; and ii. For testing Company’s computation of the estimation of contract costs and onerous obligations, if any. We:
contracts are recognised on the balance and approved by appropriate designated management sheet. personnel;
whether those variations are required to be considered in estimating the remaining costs to complete the contract;
• inspected underlying documents and performed analytics to determine reasonableness of contract costs.
inconsistent with the standalone financial statements or our statements that give a true and fair view and are free from knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
materially misstated.

operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the The Board of Directors is also responsible for overseeing the disclosures, and whether the standalone financial Company’s financial reporting process. statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. our audit.
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial applicable, related safeguards.
statements.
professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism significance in the audit of the standalone financial statements throughout the audit. We also: of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters.
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting communication.
the audit in order to design audit procedures that are the “Annexure A” a statement on the matters specified in appropriate in the circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to the extent applicable.
on whether the company has adequate internal financial 2 A. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report controls with reference to financial statements in place and that:
the operating effectiveness of such controls.
and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and knowledge and belief were necessary for the related disclosures made by the Management and Board of purposes of our audit.
Directors.
and Board of Directors use of the going concern basis so far as it appears from our examination of those of accounting in preparation of standalone financial books.
disclosures in the standalone financial statements or, if such this Report are in agreement with the books of disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our account.
conditions may cause the Company to cease to continue as under Section 133 of the Act.
a going concern.

received from the directors as on 31 March 2023 identified in any manner whatsoever by or taken on record by the Board of Directors, none on behalf of the Funding Parties (“Ultimate of the directors is disqualified as on 31 March Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, 2023 from being appointed as a director in terms security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate of Section 164(2) of the Act. Beneficiaries.
B. With respect to the other matters to be included in under (i) and (ii) above, contain any material the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of misstatement.
date of this audit report is in accordance with a. The Company has disclosed the impact of Section 123 of the Act.
of the Act to the extent it applies to payment of Note 19 to the standalone financial statements.
dividend.
c. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, at the ensuing Annual General Meeting.
The dividend declared is in accordance with Education and Protection Fund by the Company.
Section 123 of the Act to the extent it applies to declaration of dividend.
advanced or loaned or invested (either reporting under Rule 11(g) of the Companies from borrowed funds or share premium (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014 is not applicable.
the Company to or in any other person(s) C. With respect to the matter to be included in the or entity(ies), including foreign entities Auditor’s Report under Section 197(16) of the Act:
prescribed other details under Section 197(16) of the Beneficiaries.
Act which are required to be commented upon by us.

Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the Standalone Financial Statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 (Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and procedures and coverage as followed by management Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) were appropriate. No discrepancies were noticed on verification between the physical stocks and the book (i) (a) (A) The Company has maintained proper records records that were more than 10% in the aggregate of showing full particulars, including quantitative each class of inventory.
records of the Company, the Company has been showing full particulars of intangible assets.
Plant and Equipment by which all property, plant any working capital limit from the financial institutions.
advances in the nature of loans to other parties during such verification.
or granted any loans or advances in the nature of loans, name of the Company.
secured, to companies, firms, limited liability partnerships (d) According to the information and explanations or any other parties during the year.
loans or advances in the nature of loans or stood the year.
guarantee or provided security to subsidiaries.
(e) According to the information and explanations given The Company does not hold any investment in to us and on the basis of our examination of the any joint ventures or associates.
loans and unsecured advances in the nature of thereunder.
management during the year. In our opinion, the or provided security to parties other than frequency of such verification is reasonable and subsidiaries.

Particulars Guarantees Security Loans Advances in nature of loans Aggregate amount during the year Subsidiaries* - - - - Joint ventures* - - - - Associates* - - - - Others - - ` 7,588.90 Crores ` 196.35 Crores Balance outstanding as at balance sheet date - Subsidiaries* - - - - Joint ventures* - - - - Associates* - - - - Others* - - ` 12.59 Crores ` 262.39 Crores *As per the Companies Act, 2013 (b) According to the information and explanations given provided any guarantee or security as specified under to us and based on the audit procedures conducted by Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013. Further, the us, in our opinion the investment made and the terms Company has complied with the provisions of Section 186 and conditions of the grant of loans and advances in of the Companies Act, 2013 in relation to loans given and the nature of loans during the year are, prima facie, investments made.
not prejudicial to the interest of the Company.
(v) The Company has not accepted any deposits or amounts (c) According to the information and explanations given which are deemed to be deposits from the public.
to us and on the basis of our examination of the Accordingly, clause 3(v) of the Order is not applicable.
provided by it). Accordingly, clause 3(vi) of the Order is not (d) According to the information and explanations given applicable.
and advances in the nature of loan given. tax during the year since effective 1 July 2017, these statutory dues has been subsumed into GST.
(f) According to the information and explanations given other statutory dues have generally been regularly to us and on the basis of our examination of the deposited with the appropriate authorities.
the Company has not given any loans, or provided any arrears as at 31 March 2023 for a period of more than guarantee or security as specified under Section 185 six months from the date they became payable.

(b) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no statutory dues of Goods and Service Tax, Provident Fund, Employees’ State Insurance, Income-tax, Sales tax, Service tax, Duty of Customs, Value added tax, Cess or other statutory dues which have not been deposited by the Company on account of any dispute except for the following:
Act
** These amounts are net of amount paid/ adjusted under protest ` 327 crores.
(viii) According to the information and explanations given to us on short-term basis have been used for long-term and on the basis of our examination of the records of the purposes by the Company.
venture (as defined under the Act) during the year the payment of interest thereon to any lender.
ended 31 March 2023.
on the pledge of securities held in its subsidiaries institution or government or government authority.
to us by the management, the Company has not (as defined under the Act) during the year ended 31 obtained any term loans during the year. Accordingly, March 2023.
clause 3(ix)(c) of the Order is not applicable.
to us and on an overall examination of the balance debt instruments). Accordingly, clause 3(x)(a) of the sheet of the Company, we report that no funds raised Order is not applicable.

(b) According to the information and explanations given (d) According to the information and explanations to us and on the basis of our examination of the provided to us, the Group (as per the provisions of the records of the Company, the Company has not made Core Investment Companies (Reserve Bank) Directions, any preferential allotment or private placement of 2016) has more than one CIC as part of the Group. The shares or fully or partly convertible debentures during Group has six CICs as part of the Group.
(xvii) The Company has not incurred cash losses in the current applicable.
and in the immediately preceding financial year.
explanations given to us, considering the principles not applicable.
report that the Company is not capable of meeting its Government.
one year from the balance sheet date, will get discharged 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable.
by the Company as and when they fall due.
transactions have been disclosed in the standalone financial of this auditor’s report.
to us and our audit procedures, in our opinion, the pursuant to any project other than ongoing projects.
Accordingly, clause 3(xx)(a) of the Order is not with the size and nature of its business.
applicable.
(b) In our opinion and according to the information Company issued till date for the period under audit.
of the Act pursuant to ongoing projects. Accordingly, (xvi) (a) The Company is not required to be registered under clause 3(xx)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
(b) The Company is not required to be registered under Firm’s Registration No.: 101248W/W-100022 Section 45-IA of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
Bank of India. Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order Date: 12 April 2023 ICAI UDIN: 23060154BGXCZS4294 is not applicable.

Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s Report on the standalone financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2023 Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the reference to financial statements included obtaining an aforesaid standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of understanding of internal financial controls with reference to Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Act financial statements, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating (Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Opinion error.
the standalone financial statements of the Company for the year opinion on the Company’s internal financial controls with ended on that date. reference to financial statements.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibilities for transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
the orderly and efficient conduct of its business, including financial statements.
audit of internal financial controls with reference to financial of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
statements were established and maintained and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.

Standalone Balance Sheet (` crore) Note As at As at March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 ASSETS
Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 8(a) 9,186 9,669 Capital work-in-progress 8(a) 1,103 1,146 Right-of-use assets 7 5,695 5,837 Intangible assets 8(b) 809 1,018 Financial assets Investments 6(a) 2,405 2,405 Trade receivables Billed 6(b) 125 90 Unbilled 196 53 Loans 6(e) 3 8 Other financial assets 6(f) 532 626 Income tax assets (net) 2,115 1,643 Deferred tax assets (net) 15 2,464 2,779 Other assets 8(c) 2,410 1,797 Total non-current assets 27,043 27,071 Current assets Inventories 8(d) 27 19 Financial assets Investments 6(a) 35,738 29,262 Trade receivables Billed 6(b) 35,534 29,852 Unbilled 7,264 6,250 Cash and cash equivalents 6(c) 1,462 8,197 Other balances with banks 6(d) 3,081 5,495 Loans 6(e) 332 5,653 Other financial assets 6(f) 1,557 1,432 Other assets 8(c) 7,789 8,032 Total current assets 92,784 94,192 TOTAL ASSETS 1,19,827 1,21,263
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 6(n) 366 366 Other equity 9 74,172 76,807 Total equity 74,538 77,173 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 4,698 4,879 Other financial liabilities 6(i) 340 518 Employee benefit obligations 12 95 103 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 15 190 129 Unearned and deferred revenue 642 560 Total non-current liabilities 5,965 6,189 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 961 976 Trade payables Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises 6(g) - - Dues of creditors other than small enterprises and micro enterprises 6(h) 13,768 10,082 Other financial liabilities 6(i) 6,948 5,826 Unearned and deferred revenue 2,962 3,013 Other liabilities 8(e) 3,113 7,033 Provisions 8(f) 279 1,377 Employee benefit obligations 12 3,022 2,844 Income tax liabilities (net) 8,271 6,750 Total current liabilities 39,324 37,901
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,19,827 1,21,263

Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (` crore) Note Year ended Year ended March 31, 2023 March 31,2022 Revenue from operations 10 1,90,354 1,60,341 Other income 11 5,328 7,486 TOTAL INCOME 1,95,682 1,67,827
Expenses Employee benefit expenses 12 96,218 81,097 Cost of equipment and software licences 13(a) 1,416 1,010 Finance costs 14 695 486 Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,940 3,522 Other expenses 13(b) 41,723 31,989 TOTAL EXPENSES 1,43,992 1,18,104
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 51,690 49,723 Tax expense Current tax 15 12,946 11,931 Deferred tax 15 (362) (395)
TOTAL TAX EXPENSE 12,584 11,536 PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 39,106 38,187
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI)

LATIPAC ERAHS
YTIUQE .A
3202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC ta sa ecnalab detatseR latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC 2202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB raey eht gnirud 2202 ,1 lirpA srorre doirep roirp ot eud 663 - 663 - 663 )erorc `( 2202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC ta sa ecnalab detatseR latipac erahs ytiuqe ni segnahC 1202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB *raey eht gnirud 1202 ,1 lirpA srorre doirep roirp ot eud 663 )4( 073 - 073 .)n(6 eton refeR* )erorc `( YTIUQE
REHTO .B
ytiuqE latoT emocni evisneherpmoc rehto fo smetI sulprus dna sevreseR evreser gnigdeh wofl hsaC tnemtsevnI deniateR cimonocE laicepS latipaC latipaC eulav emiT eulav cisnirtnI notiaulaver sgninrae tnemtsevni-er enoZ notipmeder *evreser evreser evreser evreser 708,67 )35( 72 085 949,86 782,7 71 - 2202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 601,93 - - - 601,93 - - - raey eht rof tfiorP )493( 52 )91( )244( 24 - - - )sessol( / emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO 217,83 52 )91( )244( 841,93 - - - emocni evisneherpmoc latoT )743,14( - - - )743,14( - - - dnediviD - - - - )083,8( 083,8 - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS ot refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er - - - - 858,3 )858,3( - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS morf refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er 271,47 )82( 8 831 822,26 908,11 71 - 3202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB 424,47 )72( 65 619 829,07 835,2 31 - 1202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 781,83 - - - 781,83 - - - raey eht rof tfiorP )052( )62( )92( )633( 141 - - - )sessol( / emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO 739,73 )62( )92( )633( 823,83 - - - emocni evisneherpmoc latoT )713,31( - - - )713,31( - - - dnediviD )94( - - - )94( - - - serahs ytiuqe fo kcab-yub rof sesnepxE )291,4( - - - )291,4( - - - serahs ytiuqe fo kcab-yub no xaT )699,71( - - - )000,81( - 4 - serahs ytiuqe fo kcab-yuB - - - - )704,9( 704,9 - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS ot refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er - - - - 856,4 )856,4( - - enoZ cimonocE laicepS morf refsnarT evreser tnemtsevni-er 708,67 )35( 72 085 949,86 782,7 71 - 2202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB .erorc 05.0` naht ssel seulav stneserpeR* dedne sraey eht rof sgninrae deniater fo trap a sa desingocer si )xat fo ten( snalp tfieneb eeyolpme denfied fo tnemerusaemer no erorc 141` dna erorc 24` fo niaG .ylevticepser ,2202 dna 3202 ,13 hcraM

Nature and purpose of reserves the terms of section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.
sale, issue or cancellation of the Company’s own equity earnings of the Company as on the balance sheet date.
instruments to capital reserve.
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
Act, 1961. The reserve will be utilised by the Company for in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.

Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (` crore) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the year 39,106 38,187 Adjustments for:
Net cash generated from operating activities 37,029 36,127 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (` crore) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 29 29 Interest received 2,933 2,594 Dividend received from subsidiaries 1,866 3,554 Net cash generated from investing activities 3,250 3,642 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of lease liabilities (1,006) (935) Interest paid (697) (478) Dividend paid (41,347) (13,317) Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account - (180) Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account 18 162 Expenses for buy-back of equity shares - (49) Tax on buy-back of equity shares (4,192) - Buy-back of equity shares - (18,000) Net cash used in financing activities (47,224) (32,797) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (6,945) 6,972 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 8,197 1,112 Exchange difference on translation of foreign currency cash and cash equivalents 210 113 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1,462 8,197 Components of cash and cash equivalents Balances with banks In current accounts 776 809 In deposit accounts 686 7,388 Cheques on hand -* -* Cash on hand -* -* Remittances in transit -* -* 1,462 8,197
*Represents values less than ₹ 0.50 crore.
Refer note 13(c) for amount spent during the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 on construction / acquisition of any asset and other purposes relating to CSR activities.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 1) Corporate information These standalone financial statements have been prepared Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS in Indian Rupee (`) which is the functional currency of the Limited” or “the Company”) provides IT services, consulting Company. Foreign currency transactions are recorded at and business solutions and has been partnering with many exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction.
model recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in development. foreign currencies are not retranslated.
domiciled in India. The address of its corporate office is TCS the standalone financial statements have been discussed in House, Raveline Street, Fort, Mumbai - 400001. As at the respective notes.
These standalone financial statements have been prepared periods presented.
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised time.
and future periods are affected.
on historical cost basis except for certain financial statements:
asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction contracts which is used to determine degree of completion between market participants at the measurement date. of the performance obligation.
and the realisation in cash and cash equivalents of the in future periods.
consideration for such services rendered, the Company has considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
payments and items of income or expense associated impairment loss is accounted for in the statement of profit with investing or financing cash flows. The cash flows from and loss.
measured based on quoted prices in active markets, their value to be cash equivalents.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements fair value is measured using valuation techniques including covered by an option to extend the lease if the Company the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs to these is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and periods models are taken from observable markets where possible, covered by an option to terminate the lease if the Company but where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is is reasonably certain not to exercise that option. In required in establishing fair values. Judgements include assessing whether the Company is reasonably certain to considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an volatility. Changes in assumptions about these factors could option to terminate a lease, it considers all relevant facts affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. and circumstances that create an economic incentive for the Company to exercise the option to extend the lease, (e) Provision for income tax and deferred tax assets or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease. The The Company uses estimates and judgements based on Company revises the lease term if there is a change in the the relevant rulings in the areas of allocation of revenue, non-cancellable period of a lease.
tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that borrowing rate specific to the lease being evaluated or for a future taxable profit will be available against which the portfolio of leases with similar characteristics.
or amendments to the existing standards under Companies the end of each reporting period.
obligations as a result of past events and it is probable Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment that outflow of resources will be required to settle the Rules, 2023, applicable from April 1, 2023, as below:
The amendments require companies to disclose their current best estimates.
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain Company does not expect this amendment to have any future events not wholly within the control of the Company significant impact in its financial statements.
the scope of the recognition exemption in paragraphs 15 statements.
defined benefit requires the Company to use assumptions. differences. The Company is evaluating the impact, if any, in These assumptions have been explained under employee its financial statements.
benefits note.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements measurement uncertainty. The Company does not expect recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable this amendment to have any significant impact in its to the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair financial statements. value through profit or loss are immediately recognised in statement of profit and loss.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost less Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of impairment loss, if any.
are initially measured at transaction price. Transaction Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or the effective interest method.
The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the cost.
The Company considers all highly liquid investments, which risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow are readily convertible into known amounts of cash that are hedges.
Financial assets at amortised cost derivatives consistent with the risk management Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised strategy of the Company.
instrument and hedged item based on the currency, principal amount outstanding.
amount and timing of their respective cash flows.
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal statement of profit and loss.
amount outstanding and selling financial assets.
subsequent changes in the fair value of equity investments other comprehensive income and accumulated under not held for trading in other comprehensive income. the heading cash flow hedging reserve.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements and time value of an option is recognised in the other Impairment of financial assets (other than at fair value) comprehensive income and accounted as a separate The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet component of equity. Such amounts are reclassified whether a financial asset or a group of financial assets into the statement of profit and loss when the related is impaired. Ind AS 109 requires expected credit losses hedged items affect profit and loss. to be measured through a loss allowance. The Company recognises lifetime expected losses for all contract assets Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging and / or all trade receivables that do not constitute a instrument expires or is sold, terminated or no financing transaction. In determining the allowances longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or for doubtful trade receivables, the Company has used loss recognised in other comprehensive income and a practical expedient by computing the expected credit accumulated in equity till that time remains and is loss allowance for trade receivables based on a provision recognised in the statement of profit and loss when matrix. The provision matrix takes into account historical the forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and credit loss experience and is adjusted for forward looking loss. Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the information. The expected credit loss allowance is based on statement of profit and loss when the hedge becomes the ageing of the receivables that are due and allowance ineffective. rates used in the provision matrix. For all other financial assets, expected credit losses are measured at an amount • Instruments not in hedging relationship equal to the 12-months expected credit losses or at an amount equal to the life time expected credit losses if the The Company enters into contracts that are effective credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly as hedges from an economic perspective, but they since initial recognition.
the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (a) Investments Investments consist of the following:
Government bonds and securities includes bonds pledged with bank for credit facility and with manager to the buy-back amounting to `1,650 crore and `3,560 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
Aggregate value of impairment of investments 19 19 Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Carrying value of investment in equity instruments is as follows:
75,82,820 SGD 1 Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific 19 19 Pte Ltd.
1,000 USD - Tata Consultancy Services Canada -* -* Inc.
100 CAD 70,653.61 Tata Consultancy Services Canada 31 31 Inc.
1,40,00,000 ZAR 1 Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) 66 66 (PTY) Ltd.
- -
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through OCI is as follows:
(b) Trade receivables - Billed Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:
Considered good 125 90 Ageing for trade receivables - billed – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Ageing for trade receivables - billed – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
35,534 29,852 Above balances of trade receivables - billed include balances with related parties (Refer note 20).
Ageing for trade receivables - billed – current outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Ageing for trade receivables - billed – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
(c) Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
1,462 8,197
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(d) Other balances with banks Other balances with banks consist of the following:
Earmarked balances with banks primarily relate to margin money for purchase of investments, margin money of derivative contracts and unclaimed dividends.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (e) Loans Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
Inter-corporate deposits yield fixed interest rate and are placed with financial institutions, who are authorized to accept and use such inter-corporate deposits as per regulations applicable to them.
(f) Other financial assets Other financial assets consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (g) Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises The disclosure pursuant to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006, (MSMED Act) for dues to micro enterprises and small enterprises as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 is as under:
section 23 of MSMED Act, 2006
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(h) Trade Payables Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
13,768
*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.
Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (i) Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited (merged with the Company) which, on refund by tax authorities is payable to the seller.
(j) Financial instruments by category The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
- - 22 106 22,153 22,281 Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `5,386 crore, with original maturity period within 10 months.
The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and consists of the following three levels:
• Level 1 – Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
• Level 2 – Inputs are other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).
part using a valuation model based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they based on available market data.
The cost of unquoted investments included in Level 3 of fair value hierarchy approximate their fair value because there is a wide range of possible fair value measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The following table summarises financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):
The Company’s revenue is denominated in various foreign currencies. Given the nature of the business, a large portion of the costs are denominated in Indian Rupee. This exposes the Company to currency fluctuations.
the guidance and framework provided by the RMC, the Company uses various derivative instruments such as foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts in which the counter party is generally a bank.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges:
Canadian Dollar - - - 25 137 (1) The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is as follows:
`46,102 crore and `46,392 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net gain of `12 crore and `158 crore.
not qualify for hedge accounting have been recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) include loss of `112 crore and gain of `111 crore transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
transferred to the statement of profit and loss by March 31, 2024. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2023.
Following table summarises approximate gain / (loss) on the Company’s other comprehensive income on account of appreciation / depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (m) Financial risk management The Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk management policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors. The focus of the risk management committee is to assess the unpredictability of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Company.
interest rates, credit, liquidity and other market changes. The Company’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of foreign currency exchange rate risk.
environment in which the Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.
any movement in the functional currency of the various operations of the Company against major foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenue in international business.
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks. It hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in line with its risk management policies.
simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the functional currency of the Company.
which could affect the statements of profit and loss and other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in note 6(l).
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2023:
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `1,016 crore for the year ended March 31, 2023.
The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign currency exposure as at March 31, 2022:
result in increase / decrease in the Company’s profit before taxes by approximately `949 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements • Interest rate risk The Company’s investments are primarily in fixed rate interest bearing investments. Hence, the Company is not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
creditworthiness as well as concentration of risks. Credit risk is controlled by analysing credit limits and creditworthiness of customers on a continuous basis to whom the credit has been granted after obtaining necessary approvals for credit.
of 10% or more of the Company’s total bank deposits as at March 31, 2023. None of the other financial instruments of the Company result in material concentration of credit risk.
total of the carrying amount of balances with banks, bank deposits, investments excluding equity and preference investments, trade receivables, loans, contract assets and other financial assets.
The Company’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade receivable and contract assets as at March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
• Geographic concentration of credit risk Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
Geographic concentration of trade receivables (gross and net of allowances) and contract assets is allocated based on the location of the customers.
The allowance for lifetime expected credit loss on trade receivables for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was `98 crore and `96 crore, respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful trade receivables is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements. The Company consistently generated sufficient cash flows from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of significant financial liabilities as at:
(n) Equity instruments The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the following:
and other strategic investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The Company bought back 4,00,00,000 equity shares for an aggregate amount of `18,000 crore being 1.08% of the total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share in the previous year. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on March 29, 2022.
equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding.
264 264
*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements V. Equity shares movement during the 5 years preceding March 31, 2023 • Equity shares issued as bonus The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained earnings amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to `106 crore in three month period ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders through postal ballot.
total paid up equity share capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on March 29, 2022.
total paid up equity share capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on January 6, 2021.
total paid up equity share capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on September 26, 2018.
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
Total 264,43,17,117 72.27% 264,43,17,117 72.27% - Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
contract and allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of the relative standalone price of the lease component and the aggregate standalone price of the non-lease components.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The Company recognises right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term at the lease commencement date. The cost of the right-of-use asset measured at inception shall comprise of the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to be incurred by the lessee in dismantling and removing the underlying asset or restoring the underlying asset or site on which it is located. The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation, accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date over the shorter of lease term or useful life of right-of-use asset. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
and there is a further reduction in the measurement of the lease liability, the Company recognises any remaining amount of the re-measurement in statement of profit and loss.
term of 12 months or less and leases for which the underlying asset is of low value. The lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Company applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Company applies Ind AS 115 Revenue from contracts with customers to allocate the consideration in the contract.
The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Company is as follows:
978 5,695
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) Additions for Net carrying the year ended amount as at March 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Leasehold land 100 774 Buildings 779 4,860 Leasehold improvement - 4 Computer equipment 3 66 Software licences 145 133 Vehicles -* -* 1,027 5,837
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
1,099 1,057
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Interest on lease liabilities is `421 crore and `451 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
The Company incurred `211 crore and `162 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
The total cash outflow for leases is `1,732 crore and `1,561 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, including cash outflow for short term and low value leases.
The Company has lease term extension options that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. The present value of future cash outflows for such extension periods is `786 crore and `722 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Lease contracts entered by the Company majorly pertain for buildings taken on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course.
The Company does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
the asset to its working condition for its intended use, less accumulated depreciation (other than freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.
over their estimated useful lives based on a technical evaluation. The estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below:
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for its intended use.
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Capital work-in-progress • Capital work-in-progress ageing Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2023 is as follows:
543 203 37 320 1,103 Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
• Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment on an annual basis and all the projects are executed as per rolling annual plan.
Intangible assets purchased are measured at cost as at the date of acquisition, as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.
which equates the economic useful life ranging between 2-5 years on a straight-line basis over the period of its economic useful life.
independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
Intangible assets consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) Rights under licensing agreement and software licences Cost as at April 1, 2021 580 Additions 961 Disposals / Derecognised (11) Cost as at March 31, 2022 1,530 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2021 (218) Amortisation (305) Disposals / Derecognised 11 Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2022 (512) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2022 1,018 The estimated amortisation for years subsequent to March 31, 2023 is as follows:
(c) Other assets Other assets consist of the following:
2,410 1,797 Advances to related parties, considered good, comprise:
Universal MEP Projects & Engineering Services Limited 1 -
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Other assets – Current (` crore) As at As at March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Considered good Advance to suppliers 48 117 Advance to related parties 18 8 Contract assets 4,678 3,334 Prepaid expenses 1,332 2,735 Prepaid rent 4 7 Contract fulfillment costs 531 616 Indirect taxes recoverable 853 1,001 Others 325 214 Considered doubtful Advance to suppliers 2 2 Other advances 2 2 Less: Allowance on doubtful assets (4) (4) 7,789 8,032 Advance to related parties, considered good comprise:
Non-current – Others includes advance of `177 crore and `271 crore towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
Contract fulfillment costs of `631 crore and `564 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, have been amortised in the standalone statement of profit and loss. Refer note 10 for the changes in contract asset.
and components is determined on a weighted average basis. Cost of finished goods produced or purchased by the Company includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing overheads.
Inventories consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (e) Other liabilities Other liabilities consist of the following:
(f) Provisions Provisions consist of the following:
9) Other equity Other equity consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) As at As at March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Less: Appropriations Dividend on equity shares 41,347 13,317 Transfer to capital redemption reserve - 4 Transfer to Special Economic Zone re-investment reserve 8,380 9,407 62,228 68,949 Investment revaluation reserve Opening balance 580 916 Change during the year (net) (442) (336) 138 580 Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 6(l)) Opening balance (26) 29 Change during the year (net) 6 (55) (20) (26) 74,172 76,807
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
The Company earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting and business solutions. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.
Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
• Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on output basis measured by units delivered, efforts expended, number of transactions processed, etc.
• Revenue related to fixed price maintenance and support services contracts where the Company is standing ready to provide services is recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight-lined over the period of performance.
accounting with contract costs incurred determining the degree of completion of the performance obligation. The contract costs used in computing the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.
implementation and / or customisation services rendered significantly modifies or customises the software, these services and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.
• Revenue from the sale of distinct third party hardware is recognised at the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.
principal or as an agent of the customer. The Company recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is acting as an agent.
credits, performance bonuses, price concessions and incentives, if any, as specified in the contract with the customer. Revenue also excludes taxes collected from customers.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The Company’s contracts with customers could include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. The Company assesses the products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance obligations in the contract.
Identification of distinct performance obligation involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the customer to benefit independently from such deliverables.
to all the performance obligations of the contract unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct performance obligations.
controls the asset as it is being created or existence of enforceable right to payment for performance to date and alternate use of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
Revenue from subsidiaries is recognised based on transaction price which is at arm’s length.
this criteria requires the application of judgement, in particular when considering if costs generate or enhance resources to be used to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to be recovered.
as unbilled receivables (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive cash, and only passage of time is required, as per contractual terms.
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there are billings in excess of revenues.
The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance based payments and / or milestone based progress payments. Invoices are payable within contractually agreed credit period.
In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Company recognises an onerous contract provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
performance obligation, or transaction price of an existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of services, industry verticals and geography.
Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical is as follows:
1,90,354 1,60,341 Revenue disaggregation by geography is as follows:
1,90,354 1,60,341 Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.
No single customer represents 10% or more of the Company’s total revenue during the years ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022.
price allocated to unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations which pertain to contracts where revenue recognised corresponds to the value transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based and event based contracts.
Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to variability due to several factors such as terminations, changes in scope of contracts, periodic revalidations of the estimates, economic factors (changes in currency rates, tax laws etc).
out of which 55.41% is expected to be recognised as revenue in the next year and the balance thereafter. No consideration from contracts with customers is excluded from the amount mentioned above.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Changes in contract assets are as follows:
Balance at the end of the year 4,831 3,470 Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
Balance at the end of the year 3,604 3,573 Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
Revenue recognised 1,90,354 1,60,341 The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service level credits, etc.
Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established. Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Other income consist of the following:
Net gain on sale of investments other than equity shares carried at fair value through 4 - OCI

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 Net gain on sub-lease 7 - Net foreign exchange gain / (loss) (173) 1,068 Rent income 22 21 Other income 87 81 5,328 7,486 Interest income comprise:
Other interest (including interest on tax refunds) 168 - Dividend income comprise:
unvested, is recognised as an expense at the earlier of (a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and (b) when the entity recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
The Company provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund (Company managed fund) to its employees which are treated as defined benefit plans.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to such benefits.
The Company provides benefits such as superannuation and foreign defined contribution plans to its employees which are treated as defined contribution plans.
or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date using the Projected Unit Credit Method.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:
96,218 81,097 Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:
3,022 2,844 Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
made to the trust. Certain overseas branches of the Company also provide for retirement benefit plans in accordance with the local laws.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) As at March 31, 2023 As at March 31, 2022 Domestic Foreign Foreign Total Domestic Foreign Foreign Total plans plans plans plans plans plans Funded Funded Unfunded Funded Funded Unfunded Category of assets Corporate bonds 1,832 - - 1,832 1,696 - - 1,696 Equity instruments 121 - - 121 66 - - 66 Government bonds and 2,917 - - 2,917 2,624 - - 2,624 securities Insurer managed funds 1,387 1 - 1,388 981 1 - 982 Bank balances 6 - - 6 5 - - 5 Others 126 - - 126 145 - - 145 6,389 1 - 6,390 5,517 1 - 5,518 Net periodic gratuity cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
Actual return on plan assets 321 - - 321 329 - - 329 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) As at March 31, 2022 Domestic Foreign plans Foreign plans Total plans Funded Funded Unfunded Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in demographic (20) - 2 (18) assumptions Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions (165) - (1) (166) Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience (5) - 4 (1) adjustments Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (190) - 5 (185) Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount 5 - - 5 included in interest income (185) - 5 (180) The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
obligations as at March 31, 2023. The Company does not expect to contribute to defined benefit plan obligations funds for year ending March 31, 2024 in view of adequate surplus plan assets as at March 31, 2023.
salary increase. The sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
If the expected salary growth increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
using the Projected Unit Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the balance sheet.
Each year an Asset - Liability matching study is performed in which the consequences of the strategic investment policies are analysed in terms of risk and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within this study.
The defined benefit obligations shall mature after the year ended March 31, 2023 as follows:
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered provident fund.
The details of fund and plan assets are given below:
Net excess / (shortfall) - - The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and corporate bonds.
The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of interest guarantee under the deterministic approach are as follows:
The Company expensed `1,614 crore and `1,372 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards provident fund.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Superannuation All eligible employees on Indian payroll are entitled to benefits under Superannuation, a defined contribution plan. The Company makes monthly contributions until retirement or resignation of the employee. The Company recognises such contributions as an expense when incurred. The Company has no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
The Company expensed `278 crore and `271 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards Employees’ Superannuation Fund.
The Company expensed `1,070 crore and `885 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution plans.
13) Cost recognition Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified according to their nature.
receivables and advances (net) and other expenses. Other expenses are aggregation of costs which are individually not material such as commission and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
(a) Cost of equipment and software licences Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
1,416 1,010
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
(b) Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following:
sales, marketing and advertisement expenses and `2,544 crore and `1,708 crore for the years ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, towards project expenses.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (c) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure (` crore) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2023 March 31, 2022 1 Amount required to be spent by the company during the year 773 716 2 Amount of expenditure incurred on:
7 Details of related party transactions in relation to CSR expenditure as per relevant Accounting Standard:
14) Finance costs Finance costs consist of the following:
15) Income taxes Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in the deferred tax asset or liability during the year.
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
operates. The current tax payable by the Company in India is Indian income tax payable on income after taking credit for tax relief available for export operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
jurisdiction in which the respective branch operates. The taxes paid are generally available for set off against the Indian income tax liability of the Company’s worldwide income.
income tax provision arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
except when the deferred income tax arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
those temporary differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
sheet when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be realised.
The income tax expense consists of the following:
The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at statutory income tax rate to income tax expense reported in statement of profit and loss is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The Company benefits from the tax holiday available for units set up under the Special Economic Zone Act, 2005. These tax holidays are available for a period of fifteen years from the date of commencement of operations. Under the SEZ scheme, the unit which begins providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for deductions of 100% of profits or gains derived from export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profit or gains for a further period of five years and 50% of such profits or gains for the balance period of five years subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. From April 1, 2011 profits from units set up under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).
Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2023 are as follows:
2,650 362 236 (974) 2,274 Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2022 are as follows:
2,795 395 196 (736) 2,650 Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
asset only when the asset can be measured reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be realised.
Direct tax contingencies The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and in some of the other jurisdictions where it operates.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements respectively, not included above, the Company is entitled to an indemnification from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited.
the jurisdictions it operates in. The Company has evaluated these notices and inquiries and has concluded that any consequent income tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
to fiscals 2019 and earlier and applicable state statutes of limitation vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation generally applies to fiscal 2019 and earlier.
weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period. The Company did not have any potentially dilutive securities in any of the periods presented.
17) Auditor’s remuneration Auditor’s remuneration consists of the following:
18) Segment information The Company publishes the standalone financial statements of the Company along with the consolidated financial statements.
In accordance with Ind AS 108, Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment information in the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,454 crore and `1,315 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, for purchase of property, plant and equipment.
• Direct tax matters Refer note 15.
respectively, from various indirect tax authorities which are being contested by the Company based on the management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements • Other claims Claims aggregating `218 crore and `235 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, against the Company have not been acknowledged as debts.
in the Court of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to and download of their confidential information and use thereof in the development of the Company’s product MedMantra.
filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge of `822 crore (US $100 million) award and `1,645 crore (US $200 million) in punitive damages.
approached the Supreme Court seeking review of the Order of the Appeals Court which was denied by the Supreme Court on March 21, 2022.
Credit provided as security, towards compensatory damages awarded by the District Court and confirmed by the Appeals Court, already provided for in the earlier years.
Company has filed an appeal on November 16, 2022, in the Appeals Court to reduce the punitive damages awarded by the District Court, which is pending.
Pursuant to encashment of the Letter of Credit towards compensatory damages, the value of Letter of Credit made available to Epic stands reduced to `1,250 crore (US $152 million).
comfort, the Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiary.
The Company has provided guarantees to third parties on behalf of its subsidiaries. The Company does not expect any outflow of resources in respect of the above.
The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could be claimed by counter parties.
subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Company’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Company routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business.
Refer note 21 of consolidated financial statement for list of subsidiaries of the Company.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Transactions with related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) Year ended March 31, 2022 Tata Sons Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Associates / joint Other Total Private of the of Tata ventures of Tata Sons related Limited Company Sons Private Private Limited and parties Limited their subsidiaries Bad debts and advances written - - (3) 1 - (2) off, allowance for doubtful trade receivables and advances (net) Contribution and advance to post - - - - 2,322 2,322 employment benefit plans Purchase of property, plant and - - 15 147 - 162 equipment Advances given - 2 3 6 - 11 Advances recovered - 1 3 17 - 21 Advances taken - 158 - 1 - 159 Dividend paid 9,609 - 5 2 - 9,616 Guarantees given - 29 - - - 29 Buy-back of shares 11,164 - 4 6 - 11,174 Cost recovery - 2,799 - - - 2,799 Sale of property, plant and equipment - 1 - - - 1 Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Balances payable to related parties are as follows:
Commitments and guarantees - 4,610 37 201 - 4,848 Material related party transactions are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Material related party balances are as follows:
Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. 933 433 Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.
or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Company (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like to or on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
other persons or entities identified in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Funding Party (Ultimate Beneficiaries) or (ii) provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
22) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `13 crore and `12 crore as at March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.
towards Provident Fund and Gratuity. The Ministry of Labour and Employment had released draft rules for the Code on Social Security, 2020 on November 13, 2020. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified.
The Company will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 24) Additional Regulatory Information • Ratios Ratio Numerator Denominator Current year Previous year Current ratio (in times) Total current assets Total current liabilities 2.4 2.5 Debt-Equity ratio (in Debt consists of borrowings Total equity 0.1 0.1 times) and lease liabilities.
equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2021 and an amount of `21.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for the year ended March 31, 2022.
approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately `8,782 crore.

1-COA mroF debircserp eht ni 4102 ,seluR )stnuoccA( seinapmoC fo yrtnuoC fo % desoporP tfiorP noisivorP tfiorP revonruT stnemtsevnI latoT latoT sevreseR erahS egnahcxE gntiropeR fo etad dnE tratS fo etaD eht fo emaN .rS gnidloherahS dnediviD refta xaT rof erofeb setiilibaiL stessA dna latipaC etaR ycnerruC gntinuocca fo etad gnimoceb yraidisbuS .oN xaT xaT sulpruS fo doirep gntinuocca yraidisbus ynapmoC erorc ` yraidisbus fo doirep yraidisbus aidnI %98 - 61 6 22 431 52 36 971 411 2 000000.1
RNI ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA enilnOTPA 1 3202 2202 4002 detimiL aidnI %98 - 62 9 53 29 74 45 181 621 1 000000.1
RNI ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA rebmetpeS enilnO
PM 2 3202 2202 6002 ,8 detimiL aidnI %15 - 68 92 511 653 - 08 144 153 01 000000.1
RNI ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,91 yraunaJ egdE-C 3 3202 2202 6002 seigolonhceT detimiL aidnI %47 - 7 2 9 1 33 36 941 38 3 000000.1
RNI ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA rebmetpeS enilnOahaM 4 3202 2202 0102 ,32 detimiL aidnI %001 - 39 53 821 640,2 551 838 780,1 932 01 000000.1
RNI ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA rebmeceD evreS-e
SCT 5 3202 2202 8002 ,13 lanotianretnI detimiL
.K.U %001 - 031 32 351 852,4 193 313,1 838,2 515,1 01 895746.101
PBG rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,32 tsuguA atnegiliD 6 2202 ,13 2202 5002 detimiL adanaC %001 - 438 992 331,1 712,01 - 478,1 142,3 423,1 34 133166.06
DAC ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,1 rebotcO ataT 7 3202 2202 9002 ycnatlusnoC adanaC secivreS .cnI
.A.S.U %001 - 779 733 413,1 710,5 214 853,3 000,5 046,1 2 005232.28
DSU ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA aciremA ataT 8 3202 2202 4002 lanotianretnI notiaroproC eropagniS %001 - 382 83 123 897,2 619 880,1 990,2 579 63 005232.28
DSU ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 9 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC aisA secivreS .dtL etP cfiicaP anihC %001 - 94 42 37 050,1 14 951 864 76 242 097569.11
YNC rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ rebmevoN ataT 01 2202 ,13 2202 6002 ,61 ycnatlusnoC )anihC( secivreS .dtL ,.oC napaJ %66 - 433 451 884 062,5 - 913,1 699,2 014,1 762 928616.0
YPJ ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA 4102 ,1 yluJ ataT 11 3202 2202 ycnatlusnoC ,napaJ secivreS .dtL aisyalaM %001 - 71 11 82 815 - 302 272 56 4 941436.81
RYM ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 21 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS ndS aisyalaM dhB

RDI ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,5 rebotcO ataT
TP 31 3202 2202 6002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS aisenodnI senippilihP %001 - 48 01 49 199 - 514 245 961 )24( 035215.1
PHP ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA rebmetpeS ataT 41 3202 2202 8002 ,91 ycnatlusnoC secivreS .cnI )senippilihP( dnaliahT %001 - 1 - 1 09 - 43 04 4 2 668504.2
BHT ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,21 yaM ataT 51 3202 2202 8002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS )dnaliahT( detimiL muigleB %001 - 301 73 041 626,2 - 335 899 364 2 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 61 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS muigleB ynamreG %001 - 382 231 514 218,6 - 505,1 903,2 308 1 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 71 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS dnalhcstueD HbmG nedewS %001 - 302 55 852 852,4 - 226 825,1 609 - 847339.7
KES ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 81 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC egirevS secivreS
BA sdnalrehteN %001 - 705 401 116 526,7 447,1 059,1 030,5 094,2 095 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 91 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS
VB sdnalrehteN ylatI %001 - - 9 9 004 - 331 112 85 02 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 02 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC ailatI secivreS .l.r.s nellepaC %001 - 75 32 08 897 - 591 313 86 05 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,82 rebotcO ataT 12 ed
.D.G( 3202 2202 5002 ycnatlusnoC )gruobmexuL secivreS gruobmexuL
.A.S dnalreztiwS %001 - 122 15 272 807,4 - 319 757,1 138 31 804188.98
FHC ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,13 rebotcO ataT 22 3202 2202 6002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS .dtL dnalreztiwS

RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 hcraM ataT 32 3202 2202 2102 ycnatlusnoC secivreS hcierretsO HbmG kramneD %0 - )5( - )5( )2( - - - - - 320700.21
KKD ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,61 hcraM ataT 42 3202 2202 2102 ycnatlusnoC secivreS SpA kramnaD niapS %001 - 74 6 35 765 - 321 442 021 1 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 tsuguA ataT 52 3202 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC eD secivreS .A.S anapsE lagutroP %001 - 12 5 62 701 - 83 37 53 - 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA 5002 ,4 yluJ ataT 62 3202 2202 ycnatlusnoC secivreS )lagutroP( ,laossepinU adatimiL ecnarF %001 - 62 8 43 948,2 - 140,2 476,1 )173( 4 503444.98
RUE ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,82 enuJ ataT 72 3202 2202 3102 ycnatlusnoC ecnarF secivreS aibarA iduaS %001 - 11 3 41 795 - 651 092 621 8 250709.12
RAS rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ 5102 ,2 yluJ ataT 82 2202 ,13 2202 ycnatlusnoC iduaS secivreS aibarA acirfA htuoS %001 - 62 - 62 - 94 - 94 34 6 234616.4
RAZ rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,32 rebotcO ataT 92 2202 ,13 2202 7002 ycnatlusnoC )acirfA( secivreS .dtL
)YTP( acirfA htuoS %001 - 73 51 25 499 - 504 894 58 8 234616.4
RAZ rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,13 rebotcO ataT 03 2202 ,13 2202 7002 ycnatlusnoC htuoS( secivreS .dtL )YTP( )acirfA ailartsuA %001 - 44 - 44 - 2 - 341 )26( 502 468419.45
DUA ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,71 rebotcO ytP SNF
SCT 13 3202 2202 5002 detimiL anihC %001 - )3( - )3( 55 - 51 25 )7( 44 097569.11
YNC rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ rebmeceD laicnaniF
SCT 23 2202 ,13 2202 6002 ,92 snotiuloS .dtL ,.oC gnijieB ailartsuA %001 - 33 61 94 06 - 74 121 47 - 468419.45
DUA ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,91 rebotcO laicnaniF
SCT 33 3202 2202 5002 snotiuloS ytP ailartsuA detimiL

DSU rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,9 tsuguA
SCT 43 2202 ,13 2202 4002 AS aciremaorebI yaugurU %001 - 911 04 951 398 - 251 184 352 67 784021.2
UYU rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,9 tsuguA notiuloS
SCT 53 2202 ,13 2202 4002
.A.S retneC antinegrA %001 - 3 - 3 34 - 83 34 3 2 452493.0
SRA rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,9 tsuguA ataT 63 2202 ,13 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC secivreS .A.S antinegrA lizarB %001 - 98 35 241 594,1 - 813 427 221 482 774041.61
LRB rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,9 tsuguA ataT 73 2202 ,13 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC oD secivreS adtL lisarB ocixeM %001 - 514 281 795 796,4 - 521,1 572,2 941,1 1 783445.4
NXM rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,9 tsuguA ataT 83 2202 ,13 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC eD secivreS
,.A.S ocixeM .V.C eD elihC %001 - 29 41 601 158 85 381 116 152 771 511401.0
PLC rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,9 tsuguA ataT 93 2202 ,13 2202 4002 ycnatlusnoC elihC secivreS
.A.S elihC %001 - 58 2 78 63 433 81 263 581 951 511401.0
PLC rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,9 tsuguA senoisrevnI
SCT 04 2202 ,13 2202 4002 adatimiL elihC rodaucE %001 - 05 51 56 954 - 231 252 59 52 005232.28
DSU rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ rebmeceD
NOITULOSATAT 14 2202 ,13 2202 6002 ,82
.A.S RETNEC
yaugurU %001 - 501 4 901 137 57 161 104 042 - 784021.2 UYU
rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,1 yraunaJ yaugurU SCT
24 2202 ,13 2202 0102 .A.S
ocixeM %001 - 8 )5( 3 86 - 13 09 )81( 77 783445.4 NXM
rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,1 yraunaJ .C.S
CDGM 34 2202 ,13 2202 0102 rataQ %001 - )2( - )2( 24 - 02 55 03 5 008085.22
RAQ rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ rebmeceD ataT 44 2202 ,13 2202 1102 ,02 ycnatlusnoC rataQ secivreS
.C.L.L .K.U
%001 - 1 )1( - - - - 92 92 - 895746.101 PBG
rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,13 rebotcO ataT 54 2202 ,13 2202 8102 ycnatlusnoC KU secivreS detimiL ynamreG %001 - 3 2 5 831 65 08 651 67 - 503444.98 RUE
,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,9 hcraM ssenisuB SCT
64 3202 2202 0202 HbmG secivreS dnalerI %001 - 96 9 87 513,1 - 002 925 501 422 503444.98 RUE
rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ rebmeceD ataT 74 2202 ,13 2202 0202 ,20 ycnatlusnoC dnalerI secivreS detimiL

RUE rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,10 yraunaJ ygolonhceT
SCT 84 2202 ,13 2202 1202
GA snotiuloS sdnalrehteN %001 - - - - - - - 2 2 - 503444.98
RUE rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ yaM treseD iduaS 94 2202 ,13 2202 1202,62 gnidloH esoR .V.B airagluB %001 - 71 2 91 27 - 63 26 62 - 735367.54
NGB rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ ,13 tsuguA ataT 05 2202 ,13 2202 1202 ycnatlusnoC secivreS
DOOE airagluB alametauG %001 - 7 3 01 95 - 62 64 21 8 934345.01
QTG rebmeceD ,1 yraunaJ rebmetpeS ataT 15 2202 ,13 2202 1202 ,10 ycnatlusnoC secivreS .A.S ,alametauG aidnI %001 - )161( 16 )001( - 33 155 758,1 503,1 1 000000.1
RNI ,13 hcraM ,1 lirpA ,52 hcraM notiadnuoF
SCT 25 3202 2202 5102 :setoN .3202 ,13 hcraM no sa setar egnahcxe eht no desab era ,seinapmoc yraidisbus eht fo stnuocca eht ni seicnerruc ngierof ni nevig serugfi eht fo stnelaviuqe eepur naidnI .1 esahcrup a rof .dtL ,.oC )anihC( secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT ni tseretni pihsrenwo %8.6 lanotiidda deriuqca .dtL etP cfiicaP aisA secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT ,2202 ,81 yaM nO .2 .yraidisbus denwo yllohw a ti gnikam ybereht erorc 52` fo notiaredisnoc .2202 ,72 yluJ .f.e.w detadiuqil SpA kramnaD secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT .3 draoB eht fo flaheb no dna roF mainamarbuS yhtapanaG
N nahtanipoG hsejaR rotceriD evtiucexE dna
OOC rotceriD gniganaM dna
OEC ednotiaG rahonaM peedarP airaskeS rimaS yraterceS ynapmoC
OFC 3202 ,21 lirpA ,iabmuM

Glossary 5G Fifth generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks. 5G is expected to be much faster and enable much higher volumes of data sharing than earlier generations of cellular networks. Its massive capacity and ultra-low latency are expected to usher in an era of hyper-connectivity, enabling newer use cases such as autonomous cars, and accelerating the adoption of IoT.
pioneered the Location Independent Agile™ model that allows for deployment at scale, and helps globally distributed organization execute large transformational programs quickly, while ensuring stability and quality.
technology and DevOps enablers. TCS uses AgilityDebt™ to assess where the customer’s teams are in the Agile journey, find the bottlenecks, and accelerate their Agile transformations.
informal seating, interactive surfaces for information capture, and modern collaboration devices for increased productivity.
learning in the areas of personalization, pricing optimization, marketing, online search and commerce to unlock exponential business value.
Amortization Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an intangible asset over its useful life.
Analytics In the enterprise context, this is the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in business data to predict and improve business performance.
Annuity Contracts A long-term contract which can guarantee regular payments.

APIfication The process of exposing a discrete business function or data within an enterprise’s systems through APIs.
Application Design, development, and deployment of custom software; ongoing support, upkeep, and enhancement of such Development and software over its lifetime.
Maintenance Application A set of easily accessible protocols for communication among various software components.
Intelligence complex content, engaging in natural dialogs with people, augmenting human effort or replacing people on execution of non-routine tasks. Also known as Cognitive Computing.
Assets Under A measure of the total assets for which a financial institution, typically a custodian bank, provides custodian Custody services.
Attrition Measures what portion of the workforce left the organization (voluntarily and involuntarily) over the last 12 months (LTM).
Augmented Technology that superimposes a computer-generated image on a user’s view of the real world to enrich the Reality interaction.
human or ‘learned’ by the machine through pattern recognition of data. Popular types include Robotic Process Automation and Cognitive Automation.
Avatar An avatar is a digital representation of yourself, whether it’s in a video game, the metaverse, or wherever else it might be applicable.
Basis Point One hundredth of a percentage point, that is, 0.01 percent.
Big Data A high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information asset that require new forms of processing to enable enhanced decision making, insight discovery, and process optimization.
Blockchain A distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of records, called blocks, secured from tampering and revision.
leverage ecosystems, embrace risk and create exponential value. Such enterprises are agile, intelligent, automated and on the cloud.
multi-tenant platform and shared services, thereby delivering significant operating efficiencies. The pricing model is usually outcome based.
Business Process Designing, enabling, and executing business operations including data management, analytics, interactions and Services experience management.
and usually extinguishing those shares thereafter. The company’s equity share capital and the number of shares outstanding in the market correspondingly reduced.
Capital Funds used by a company to acquire, upgrade, and maintain physical assets such as property, buildings, an Expenditure industrial plant, technology, or equipment.
emissions continue, they are compensated by absorbing an equivalent amount from the atmosphere through carbon offset.

Carbon Offset Market-based instrument used to compensate for the emission of greenhouse gases into the atmosphere because of the organization’s activity by reducing them somewhere else. Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) and Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are some of the popular carbon offsets.
in value. Cash and cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes.
Cash Flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.
Cash Flow Primarily derived from the principal revenue producing activities. Therefore, they generally result from the from Operating transactions and other events that enter into the determination of profit or loss.
Chatbots Computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human users, especially over the internet. They are typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes like customer service or information acquisition.
Cloud Computing The delivery of easily provisionable computing resources – servers, storage, databases, networking, software, analytics and more – over the internet, consumed on a pay-as-you-go basis.
Cloud Native A cloud native application consists of discrete, reusable components known as microservices that are designed to integrate into any cloud environment.
Cognitive The use of AI and machine learning to automate relatively more complex tasks that require reasoning capability Automation and contextual awareness. TCS’ ignio™ a leading cognitive automation software product in the market today.
Operations (CBO) operations including the business processes and the underlying IT infrastructure, and uses cognitive automation to transform that operational stack.
Co-Innovation This is an extended, global innovation ecosystem curated by TCS, to harness the innovation efforts of start-ups Network and academia, and incorporate them into transformational solutions built by TCS for its customers.
Compounded The annual growth rate between any two points in time, assuming that it has been compounding during that Annual Growth period.
Trials (CCT) companies to significantly transform patient engagement in clinical trials and improve adherence to protocols, Platform as well as the efficiency and accountability of clinical trials.
Constant Currency The basis for restating the current period’s growth after eliminating the impact of movements in exchange rates during the period.
technology solutions that are uniquely tailored for that customer, and therefore, a potential source of competitive differentiation.
talk to. They use large volumes of data, machine learning, and natural language processing to help imitate human interactions, recognizing speech and text inputs and translating their meanings across various languages.
CO2e Acronym for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”. It is a standard unit for accounting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from carbon dioxide or another greenhouse gases, such as SOX, NOX, methane, etc.
System records; typically includes deposit, loan and credit processing capabilities, with interfaces to general ledger systems and reporting tools.

Core Modernization initiatives that target the one or more elements of the organization’s operations stack consisting Transformation of business processes, software systems and underlying infrastructure, usually to enable greater agility, scalability, resilience and a superior customer experience. These are typically large in scale and scope, and entail the integrated delivery of multiple capabilities.
Cyber Security Technologies, processes and practices designed to protect networks, computers, programs and data from attack, damage or unauthorized access.
Days’ Sales A popular way of depicting the Trade Receivable relative to the company’s Revenue.
DSO Data Mining Data mining is the practice of obtaining valuable information from data sets. The data can be in any form, such as text, audio, or video data.
Data mining aims to find actionable insights in the data that can improve business decisions or solve problems.
For instance, data mining can discover customer buying patterns and target ads towards people who would likely purchase a product.
Depreciation Systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life.
DevOps Represents a new way of working to rapidly deploy new releases of a software in production using high levels of automation and tooling. TCS recommends adoption of DevOps, along with Agile for speed to market.
and Internet of Things. Increasingly, with these technologies becoming mainstream, this word is becoming redundant.
Digital Divide Digital Divide refers to the unequal spread of technology and the opportunities it affords between different socioeconomic groups in a society.
using its data, process, people information. Impact of any change in a process in the real factory can be studied by simulating the change in the digital twin.
Discretionary Also known as Change the Business (CTB) spend, it is that portion of the IT budget which is used to fund projects Spend that are not, strictly speaking, essential for day to day operations, but are more transformational in nature.
discretionary spend is often the first to be scrutinized. However, what is considered discretionary is subjective and may differ considerably amongst businesses even within the same sector.
share held by the Shareholders. TCS has a policy of declaring quarterly interim dividends and the final dividend is approved by the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting.
EACs Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are market-based instruments that can be used by the bearer to claim renewable energy consumption. Each EAC is equivalent to 1 MWh of electricity.
Earnings Per Share The amount of that period’s Net Income attributable to a single share after deducting any preference dividend (EPS) and related taxes.
EPS = [Net profit attributable to Shareholders of the Company – Preference dividend, if any] / Weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the period.
Edge Computing Computing and storage that is located on servers on the edge of the network, in close proximity to the users, but not through an on-premise data center; usually reserved for low latency use cases.
EFF1 European Efficiency Classification standard, Level 1 Effective Tax Rate The proportion of the Profit Before Tax that is provided towards income taxes.
(ETR) ETR = Tax expense / Profit Before Tax EIA Acronym for Environmental Impact Assessment. It is an environmental impact study which needs to be conducted as per Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF) requirements for new construction/ expansion
projects.
Engineering and Consists of next generation product engineering, manufacturing operations transformation, services Industrial Services transformation, embedded software and Internet of Things.

Enterprise Agile The adoption of Agile methods across all the business functions of the enterprise, designed to empower employees, foster collaboration and drive a culture of continuous innovation at scale.
Environmental, Environmental, social and governance (ESG) is a system for how to measure the sustainability of a company in Social and three specific categories: environmental, social and governance.
Fair Value The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
improved traditional services, for example mobile banking apps, while others have revolutionized services such as pay per mile car insurance, or created new products, such as Bitcoin.
milestones and related deliverables. This arrangement gives the vendor considerable flexibility in the staffing and execution of the project. On the other hand, it also means bearing the project risk.
use case, and which is customized for a specific customer’s needs with additional code. Use of such pre-built code reduces time to market and results in more stable, reliable solutions.
Free Cash Flow Represents the cash a company generates through its operations, less the capital expenditure.
estimating the effort for building a new application, by decomposing it into its constituent function points of varying levels of complexity.
Furlough A temporary cessation of work without pay for the employees, usually implemented by organizations facing under difficult economic conditions, and in lieu of laying off employees.
Gamification The process of adding games or game-like elements to any activity in order to enrich experiences and encourage user participation.
GDPR Acronym for General Data Protection Regulation, a European Union regulation for data protection and privacy.
including text, images, video, audio, simulations, code or synthetic data. The most popular example is ChatGPT, a large language model that uses deep learning to produce text that looks like it is written by humans.
GHGs Acronym for Greenhouse Gas. These are gases that trap heat in the atmosphere leading to global warming and climate change.
Centers (GCC) / company owned units of domestic firms, set up in offshore locations offering cheaper labor pool, helping the Captive units parent to reduce its operational costs.
Transformation drive new revenue streams, enhance customer experience or target new customer segments. This is in contrast to traditional outsourcing engagements where the focus is on improving efficiency and saving costs.
Hybrid Cloud An enterprise IT infrastructure model that combines private clouds, public clouds and on premise data centers, to meet the compute and storage needs of the business.
Innovation Days Focused workshops with a TCS customer where researchers and business leaders from both organizations participate to explore emerging technologies for specific customer problems.

Innovation Forum TCS’ thought leadership event that is held in North America, UK, Latin America and Japan. It brings together researchers from academia, innovators from the start-up ecosystem, technology watchers, futurists and customers to brainstorm around emerging technologies.
Inorganic Growth Growth in revenue due to mergers, acquisitions or takeovers, rather than due to an increase in the company's own business activity.
necessary electronics to generate and share run-time data that can be studied and used to monitor or control remotely, predict failure, and optimize the design of those machines / devices.
Property products and platforms, and gives the owner exclusive rights over its usage, such that no one can copy or reuse the creation without the owner's permission.
Technology user usually communicates a request for data or action to the technology with the technology returning the requested data or result of the action back to the user.
Invested Funds Funds that are highly liquid in nature and can be readily converted into cash.
Involuntary A reduction in the workforce due to the employer’s decision to terminate employment, instead of the Attrition employees’ decision to leave.
kL Acronym for the unit kilo-liters used to measure volume. It is a unit used to measure and report water usage in TCS’ offices.
learns both context and meaning in language, enabling it to generate text artifacts that look they were written by humans.
Independent Agile market in large transformational programs. It comprises processes, structure, and the technology that allows enterprises to overcome location constraints and embrace Agile methods on a global scale.
while the latter is entirely drag and drop. In addition to boosting innovation within the enterprise, these platforms also drive up productivity of programmers.
Machine First™ A model that integrates analytics, AI and automation deep within the enterprise to redefine how humans and Delivery Model machines work together and to effectively deliver superior outcomes.
Machine Learning A type of artificial intelligence that provides computers with the ability to learn behaviors without being explicitly programmed.
services around a range of processes and functions, in order to improve efficiency, service quality, agility and scalability.
Managed Services Service providers with the sole, end-to-end responsibility of providing Managed Services.
Provider Market The total market value of a company's total outstanding equity shares at a point in time.

Metaverse A virtual 3D environment that a user can experience explore on a computer or VR headset. Users can interact with each other in several ways, including social networking, gaming, and shopping.
minimum investment. Once validated, its features and functionalities are continually augmented in subsequent iterative cycles.
Mobility Information, convenience, and social media all combined together, and made available across a variety of screen sizes and hand-held devices.
Moonlighting Working more than one job at a time, taking on assignments from third parties in addition to a regular employment, usually without the employer’s knowledge.
of initiatives and the residual emission is compensated by removal of equivalent amount of GHG emissions elsewhere through carbon offsets.
Non-Controlling The share of the net worth attributable to non-controlling shareholders of the subsidiaries.
Spend required to keep a business running. Even in tough economic times, non-discretionary spend remains relatively unaffected.
infrastructure support whereas business operating models address execution of actions specific to a business function.
resilient. Such transformations – whether in IT or business – can be significantly accelerated by the use of TCS Cognix.
Options Contract A hedging instrument that offers the buyer the right to buy or sell the underlying asset (such as stocks or currency) on a future date, at a specified price, for small upfront fee called options premium.
prevailing market rate at the end of three months is, say ` 85. On the other hand, if the market rate is higher, say ` 89, then TCS can choose to let the options contract lapse and instead sell at the market rate.
Organic Growth The revenue growth a company can achieve by increasing its existing business activity. This does not include growth attributable to takeovers, acquisitions or mergers.
PAS 2060 It is an internationally recognized standard by the British Standards Institution to verify and substantiate an organization’ claim of carbon neutrality.
PaaS See Platform as a Service Personalization Segmentation and responding to individual transactions, customized for a single customer in a single instance.
developed. Useful for optimizing costs and efforts, and eliminating iterative tasks to drive strategic business initiatives.
Service (PaaS) applications and services over the internet. PaaS services are hosted in the cloud and accessed by users simply via their web browser.
Power Usage It is the ratio of total amount of electricity used by a data center facility to the electricity used by the computing Effectiveness equipment in the data center.

Pricing The price charged to the customer for a billable effort, turnkey project or a certain process outcome, depending on the nature of the contract. Some use this term interchangeably (and somewhat inaccurately) with the average revenue realized by the company per utilized effort on an aggregate basis. See Realization.
Private Cloud Refers to a model of cloud computing where IT infrastructure, in terms of compute and storage resources, are provisioned for the dedicated use of a single organization.
processes or business functions in a standardized way. This is the opposite of bespoke or custom software which is built to specifications to meet a customer’s unique needs.
Public Cloud A computing service model used for the provisioning of storage and computational services to the general public over the internet. Public cloud facilitates access to IT resources on a ‘pay as you go’ billing model.
there can be changes in realization compared to a prior period, due to changes in the underlying business or geographic mix during the period. This does not necessarily mean that like-to-like pricing has changed.
Also, realization doesn’t take into account the costs and therefore, higher realization is not necessarily more profitable.
RECs/ GOs Renewable Energy Certificates / Guarantees of Origin are EACs used in different markets.
Related Party Any transaction between a company and its related party involving transfer of services, resources or any Transactions obligation, regardless of whether a price is charged.
Please refer to the Company’s policy on Related Party Transactions: http://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate- governance.
Revenue The income earned by the Company from operations by providing IT and consulting services, software licenses, and hardware equipment to customers.
corporate information and history, financial information, technical capability and estimated completion period, and customer references.
require ongoing upkeep of the robots, diluting the economic benefit of the automation. Increasingly, customers are preferring cognitive automation over RPA.
SBWS™ See Secure Borderless Workspaces Scope 1, Scope 2, Green house gas emission accounting categories as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
processes, heavy use of collaborative and cloud based technologies and an internal SOC benchmarked to the best in the industry.
Operations Center perform round-the-clock monitoring of an organization’s network and investigate any potential security incidents.
Payout Ratio attributable to Shareholders of the Company. Payout can be in the form of dividend and share buyback, including taxes thereon.
Simplification The rationalization of IT architectures through consolidation of systems and elimination of redundant systems and layers. The primary purpose is to shrink the IT footprint and make operations leaner and more efficient.

Sole Sourced Non-competitive agreements that allow a single vendor to fulfill the needs of the contractual requirements.
Contract These types of contracts can be won when the competitor set narrows down significantly and comes down to a single vendor discussion, given the nature of the client’s solution requirements.
Special Economic In India, these are designated areas in which business and trade laws are different from the rest of the country, Zone with various benefits and tax breaks to promote exports, attract investments, and create local jobs.
STEM An acronym for education in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math.
business and technology services, industry solutions units, and the research and innovation organization – into internal and external co-innovation programs.
and enclose innovation showcases, Agile workspaces and think spaces. They encourage brainstorming, design thinking and collaborative innovation with internal and external partners.
Time and A form of services contract where the customer is billed for the effort (in hours, days, weeks, etc.) logged by the Materials Contract project team members. Project risk is borne by the customer. This contrasts with Fixed Price Contracts.
Total Contract An aggregation of the value of all the contracts signed during a period and a useful indicator of demand, and Value near term business visibility.
Unearned and For invoices raised in line with agreed milestones for services yet to be delivered. In other words, it is the Deferred Revenue amount that has been invoiced although the underlying effort is yet to be expended.
cloud transformation journeys. Selecting a single strategic partner with end to end capabilities to maintain the legacy estate and support the modernization drives efficiency, accountability and speed.
Virtual Reality Artificial, computer-generated simulation or recreation of a real-life environment or situation. It engages users by offering simulated reality experiences firsthand, primarily by stimulating their vision and hearing.
Virtualization The abstraction of IT resources – like a server, client, storage or network – that masks the physical nature and boundaries of those resources from the users of those resources.
Voluntary Attrition Refers to reduction in workforce resulting from employees willingly leaving the organization to pursue other opportunities, spend time with family, or for some other personal reason.
VR See Virtual Reality XR Extended reality, an umbrella term that covers augmented reality, virtual reality and mixed reality.
periodic financial statements (not limited to Notes to Accounts), then the definition provided in the certified financial statements will prevail.

Sustainability Disclosures Identification of Material Topics1 TCS conducts annual materiality assessments to update the list of material topics. The key elements of that assessment include:
Key Elements of Annual Materiality Assessments:
a list of material topics with significant economic, environmental, or social impacts on TCS’ business, reputation, and operations.
leadership activities to address important issues raised by stakeholders.
1 GRI 3-1

Key Material Topics2, Key Concerns, Boundary of impact and TCS approach3 to them are listed below:
• MDA >> Internal term mission.
• Investments • MDA >> Enabling stakeholders.
and safety 2 GRI 3-2
3 GRI 3-3

Material Topics Why this is material Key Concerns TCS Approach (Page Boundary GRI Indicators Reference Number)* of impact Social The business must be • Local communities • Social Capital >> Pg 23 External 204-1, 207-1, Responsibility rooted in community • Supplier Social • BRSR >> Pg 162, 177 207-2, 207-3 and be aligned with and Environmental 308-1, 308-2, the community’s Assessment 413-1, 414-2 larger interests. Any • Education and skill • Social Capital >> Pg 23 adversarial relationship development can hurt the company’s • Job creation • Social Capital >> Pg 23 ability to create longer term value. • Taxes payable in • CG >> Tax strategy >> different regions Pg 115 • Consolidated Financial Statements >> Income taxes >> Pgs 235 to 239 • Country-wise subsidiary income taxes >> Pgs 316 to 320 • Environmental • Natural Capital >> Pg stewardship 24, 25 Environmental Business sustainability • Energy consumption • Natural Capital >> Pg Internal 302-1, 302-3, Footprint is linked to the 24, 25 303-1, 303-2, planet’s sustainability. 303-3, 303-4, Moreover, good • BRSR >> Pg 168 303-5, 305-1, environmental practices • GHG emissions • BRSR >> Pgs 169, 170, 305-2, 305-3, result in greater 175 305-4, 305-5, operational efficiency, • Water management • BRSR >> Pg 173, 174 306-2, 306-3, adding to financial 306-4, 306-5 • Waste management • BRSR >> Pg 171, 172 sustainability.

Climate change risk and opportunities assessment and management Aligned with Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Framework Governance4 A) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks & opportunities.
Different Board committees oversee different aspects of climate-related risks and opportunities.
• The SRC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 3 members including the CEO. It reviews the climate change strategy, approach, and performance of the organization.
• The SRC formally meets twice every year to review policies and sustainability performance, including climate change and carbon performance. The board oversight helps drive the program effectively with greater accountability.
performance and drive improvement. The quarterly updates go from the Chief Human Resources Officer (CHRO) and is supported by the Head - Environmental Sustainability, Health and Safety.
• TCS’ carbon reduction goal to reduce its absolute greenhouse gas emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 70% by 2025 (over 2016 base year), and to achieve net zero emissions by 2030, was reviewed and approved by the committee.
• The RMC is chaired by an independent director and comprises of 5 members including one additional independent director, 2 executive directors, i.e..CEO, COO, and one company executive, CFO.
• The RMC formulates, monitors, and reviews the company’s risk management policy.
• Climate change risks and opportunities are covered under the strategic and operational risks for the Company and are reviewed in the RMC committee meetings.
Corporate Social Responsibility Committee (CSRC)
• The CSRC is chaired by the Company’s Chairman and additionally comprises one independent director and one executive director.
The committee formulates, monitors, and reviews the company’s CSR policy and outcomes, including climate action related projects.
• The Board members meet on a quarterly basis and review their activities.
B) Describe management’s role in assessing & managing climate-related risks & opportunities5.
• The Chief Operating Officer is responsible for overall ESG related challenges, targets and achievements.
collaboration with action owners within the organization. Location level targets are monitored by the location level operations and ESHS teams.
Management Unit which is headed by a Chief Risk Officer. This unit reviews all risks associated with the company operations. ERM categorizes risks and opportunities into Strategic, Operational, Financial, Compliance and Catastrophic.
level risk assessments are done to assess the physical risks of climate change. These are then rolled up to the enterprise-level risk portfolio register and suitably included. These risks are reviewed on a half yearly basis or as required.
4 TCFD Governance A and B 5 GRI 2-13

and machine learning to come up with a suite of offerings in this space, including intellectual property such as Clever Energy™, IP2™, and TCS Envirozone™. Clients across industries such as retail, manufacturing, utilities and consumer goods are engaging the company to develop innovative technology led solutions to reduce energy consumption, or to measure and track green-house gas emissions across their end-to-end supply chain, reduce their carbon footprint, reduce waste and promote recycling.
Strategy 6 A) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organization has identified over the short, medium, and long term.
as per the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) mandated Business Responsibility & Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) framework, which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
in all major geographies. TCS keeps a close watch on the emerging regulations and plans its organizational sustainability strategy and roadmap to adapt to those changes.
from owned data centers to hyperscaler clouds, significantly reducing the carbon footprint associated with those workloads.
on a periodic basis and has a robust internal compliance management system to identify and comply with all legal requirements of current, amended and new regulations.
opportunities, giving the company an opportunity to partner with them in their climate change mitigation journey by providing solutions, services, and process automation which helps in emission reduction.
aware of climate change related issues. It is important to demonstrate leadership in climate action to maintain TCS’ reputation.
and cyclones. E.g., The company offices located in coastal cities like Chennai, Bhubaneshwar, Kolkata, Kochi are exposed to physical risks from cyclonic events and therefore adequate mitigation plans are in place.
impacts like land submergence, salt water intrusion, disruption to network and communication systems are more likely. These risks are long term and included from perspective of planning appropriate infrastructure.
6 TCFD Strategy A, B and C. The time horizon considered by TCS during the current year for its assessment of short, medium and long term are 0 to 5 years, 5 to 10 years and 10 to 20 years respectively.

B) Describe where and how climate-related risks and opportunities have influenced the organization business, strategy and financial planning.
influenced your strategy in this area?
the spotlight on supply chain resilience and added urgency to the sustainability imperative.
offerings in this space, including intellectual property such as Clever Energy™, IP2™, and TCS Envirozone™.
consumption, or to measure and track green-house gas emissions across their end-to- end supply chain, reduce their carbon footprint, reduce waste and promote recycling.
value chain identified by the Company under its sustainability risk. TCS’s Green Procurement policy outlines its commitment to making its supply chain more responsible and sustainable.
IT and other infrastructure assets procurement as this is directly correlated with TCS’ emission profile.
engagements, and TCS is working with its suppliers to bring in improvements in carbon performance along with other ESG elements.
help them achieve their sustainability goals. Additionally, TCS has been investing in building green campuses (IGBC certified).
with circular economy principles are integral to the company operations. All these initiatives are helping TCS achieve its Net Zero target by 2030.

Have climate-related Description of influence risks and opportunities influenced your strategy in this area?
allocation, Assets issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations (COSO) of the Treadway Commission.
to identify and analyze risks and manage appropriate responses. The company has successfully laid down the framework and ensured its effectiveness.
emissions by 71% from base year 2016. These initiatives also help the company to position itself as a leader in the climate domain contributing to TCS’ market value.
and workforce preferences, d) the rise of extreme weather, e) increasing regulations, pricing and disclosure of externalities, f) digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and g) rising incomes.
chain and assessment of interdependencies between climate risks and opportunities including identification of areas of potential magnification and hedge opportunities.
and Government of India plan on energy efficiency and solar energy. The assumptions used in the analysis also considered the anticipated growth of TCS over the years and increased energy demand.
Changing customer behavior and carbon costs are assessed as a transition risk to TCS with a growing number of jurisdictions at regional and national level planning to implement a carbon tax or emission trading scheme.

Physical climate The climate change scenario analysis conducted for TCS had a multi-level approach to identify climate risk and scenarios RCP 8.5 opportunity hot spots, interdependencies, and interaction with global macro trends. The top-down analysis of the macro environmental trends that will impact the company at global level included a) nature loss and ecological degradation, b) resource scarcity and driving value chain innovation, c) changing customer and workforce preferences, d) the rise of extreme weather, e) increasing regulations, pricing and disclosure of externalities, f) digitalization and prevalence of infectious diseases and g) rising incomes.
damage costs due to disruption of operation) & c) End Markets (demand for low carbon services/ products, market share and competition).
3-4 degrees above pre-industrial levels which is a conservative scenario and helps us understand the worst- case climate impacts on our operations.
efficiency and solar energy. The assumptions used in the analysis also considered the anticipated growth of TCS over the years and increased energy demand.
Few strategies to mitigate physical risks of climate change include - 1) A robust Business Continuity Plan (BCP) to respond to climate events.
2) Investments in climate resilient infrastructure (for cyclone, floods).
climate-related risks Management Discussion and Analysis (Pages 95 to 104), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
A. Disclose the metrics used by the organization to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process.
a) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions. Please refer to the ‘Natural Capital’ section (Page 24) and BRSR section >> Principle Absolute Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3; 6 (Pages 168, 169, 170, 175), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
b) Climate-related Opportunities -. Proportion Please refer to the BRSR section >> (Pages 152, 155), which is a part of this of revenue, assets, or other business Integrated Annual Report.
activities aligned with climate-related opportunities.
c) Remuneration - Proportion of executive Please refer to the Corporate Governance Report >> Remuneration Policy (Page management remuneration linked to 122), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.
the company’s performance - which includes sustainability - and their individual performance.

B. Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks.
Please refer to the ‘Natural Capital’ section (Page 24) and BRSR section >> Principle 6 (Pages 168, 169, 170, 175), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report for disclosures on GHG emissions.
Please refer to the ‘Enterprise Risk Management’ section in Management Discussion and Analysis (Pages 95 to 104), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report for emissions related risks.
C. Describe the targets used by the organization to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets.
Please refer to the ‘Natural Capital’ section (Page 24, 25), which is a part of this Integrated Annual Report.

Communication on Progress (CoP) with the UNGC.
recommendations mapping. TCS is on a continuous journey to advance its’ ESG initiatives and reporting and will continue to evaluate and enhance ESG disclosures as the company makes progress.
GRI Standard Disclosure and Description TCFD Disclosure Section * Page No.
2-9 Governance structure and composition • CG 113
• BRSR 152 2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body • CG 113 2-11 Chair of the highest governance body • CG 114 2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the • Governance A & B • CG 114, 115 management of impacts 2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts • Governance A & B • BRSR 166
• CG 152
• TCFD Disclosures 333 2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability • Governance A & B • CG 115 reporting 2-15 Conflicts of interest • CG 114 2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body • BRSR 153 2-19 Remuneration policies • Metrics and Targets A • CG 122
• BRSR 165 2-21 Annual total compensation ratio • BRSR 165 4. Strategy, policies and practices 2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy • MDA 86
• BRSR 152

GRI Standard Disclosure and Description TCFD Disclosure Section * Page No.
3-1 Process to determine material topics • S ustainability 330 Disclosures:
• Sustainability 331 Disclosures:
3-3 Management of material topics • MDA 95, 150,
• BRSR 151, 160,
• Sustainability 161, 172 Disclosures:

GRI Standard Disclosure and Description TCFD Disclosure Section * Page No.
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover • Human Capital 18
• BRSR 148 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not • BRSR 156 provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave • BRSR 157 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes • MDA 91 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system • BRSR 158 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident • BRSR 159, 160 investigation 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety • BRSR 158 403-6 Promotion of worker health • BRSR 159 403-9 Work-related injuries • BRSR 160, 161 403-10 Work-related ill health • BRSR 160, 161 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee • BRSR 158 • Human Capital 19 404-3 Details of performance and career development reviews • BRSR 158 of employees GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees • Human Capital 18
• BRSR 147

[EMPTY PAGE]

TCS was ranked amongst the second most Valuable IT Services Brand Brand Finance Awards Jaguar TCS TCS London TCS Summit Racing 2022 Marathon 2022 North America 2022 Awards & Recognition

TCS Safe Harbor Clause Certain statements in this release concerning our future prospects are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from market expectations.
of the date on which it was made. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.
www.tcs.com