TCS/SE/44/2022-23 June 2, 2022 National Stock Exchange of India Limited BSE Limited Exchange Plaza, C-1, Block G, Bandra Kurla P. J. Towers, Complex, Bandra (East) Dalal Street, Mumbai - 400051 Mumbai - 400001 Symbol - TCS Scrip Code No. 532540 Dear Sirs, Sub: Intimation under Regulation 34 of SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 This is further to our letter dated May 18, 2022 wherein the Company has filed with the stock exchanges the Integrated Annual Report for financial year 2021-22, including the disclosures on GRI Annexures – Stakeholder Engagement Framework, Identification of Material Topics and GRI Content Index. Ernst & Young Associates LLP has now issued Independent Assurance Statement dated May 24, 2022 on the Integrated Annual Report of the Company for financial year 2021-22 which is included as part of the Integrated Annual Report and is enclosed herewith. This is also available on the Company's website www.tcs.com as well as the website of the National Securities
Depository Limited https://www.evoting.nsdl.com .
This is for your information and records.
Company Secretary cc:
Tel. 91 22 6778 9595 Fax 91 22 6778 9660 e-mail corporate.office@tcs.com website www.tcs.com Registered Office 9th Floor Nirmal Building Nariman Point Mumbai 400 021.
Corporate identification No. (CIN): L22210MH1995PLC084781

Innovating for Greater Futures Integrated 21 Annual 22 Report s e r o r f u t g 12 u n 22 F
a t i r a t e d n u al p o r t v e g r A n R e e o t n t a I
n e n r I
G s e r o r f u t g 12 u n 22 F
a t i r a t e d n u al p o r t v e g r A n R e e o t n t a I
n e n r I
G

Content Q&A with Finance and HR.............................................................42 Standalone Financial Statements Helping RS Components Deepen Customer Independent Auditors’ Report............................................318 Relationships and Drive Profitable Growth........................45 About TCS…………………………...........................................................03 Standalone Balance Sheet......................................................331 Boosting Colruyt’s Competitiveness with Board of Directors………………………….........................................04 Algorithmic Pricing.............................................................................46 Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss..................333 Management Team………………..............…........................………..05 Transforming India’s Lending Sector with a New Letter from the Chairman………………........................................06 Digital Platform.....................................................................................47 Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity..........334 Letter from the CEO……..……………………..................................09 Statutory Section Standalone Statement of Cash Flows..........................337 The Year Gone By…………………………..........................................14 Notice..........................................................................................................48 Notes forming part of the Standalone Financial Statements........................................................................................339 Integrated Reporting Framework Directors’ Report.................................................................................82 Statement under section 129 of the Companies TCS Integrated Business Model……..........................................19 Management Discussion and Analysis................................107 Act, 2013 relating to Subsidiary Companies...........398 Financial Capital...............…………………………................................20 Corporate Governance Report...............................................137 Glossary......................................................................................402 Human Capital......…………………………............................................22 Awards and Accolades....................................................................166 GRI Annexures Intellectual Capital...................................………........................……..24 Corporate Sustainability Report.............................................174 Identification of Material Topics.........................................412 Relationship and Social Capital...........……........................…….28 Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report.....186 GRI Content Index........................................................................416 Natural Capital.......................................................................................31 Consolidated Financial Statements Thematic Section Independent Auditors’ Report......................……..............233 Partnering with Takeda to Innovate at Scale.....................33 Consolidated Balance Sheet.................................................243 Co-Innovating with Bovemij to Fulfill its Mission and Drive Growth......................................................................................... 34 Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss..............245 Innovating for Greater Futures: A Panel Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity......247 Discussion................................................................................................ 35 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows………............250 Transforming Israel’s Banking Sector.................................... 40 Enabling Swiss Re’s Risk Partnership Strategy for Notes forming part of the Consolidated Financial Future Growth..................................................................................... 41 Statements………....................................................................….....252 | 1

About Recent Annual Report Themes Tata Consultancy Services is an IT services, Theme
FY 2021 consulting and business solutions organization that Building on Belief has been partnering with many of the world’s largest This year’s theme, 'Innovating for Greater Futures' refers businesses in their transformation journeys for over to the accelerated innovation witnessed in enterprises across 50 years. TCS offers a consulting-led, cognitive the world, as they shift from improvising to cope with the
powered, integrated portfolio of business, technology challenges of the pandemic, to growth and transformation.
delivered through its unique Location Independent of possibilities in product and business model innovation.
excellence in software development. FY 2020 realize their sustainability goals. The cloud is enabling Purpose-Driven. Resilient.Adaptable.
best-trained consultants in 55 countries. The company innovation, and clients are increasingly partnering with TCS generated consolidated revenues of US $25.7 billion to drive innovation at scale.
investments in research and innovation, intellectual property, the NSE (National Stock Exchange) in India.
drive holistic growth and create immense value for its stakeholders.
FY 2017 Reimagining the Enterprise About Us | 3

Board of Directors Average Age (years) Average Tenure on the Board (years) 61 06 51 71 03 15 Board Independence (%) 56% 44% Independent Non-Independent Average Tenure of Independent 05 Directors on the Board (years) 03 10 I Independent, Non-Executive Director Non-Independent, N
Non-Executive Director NE Non-Independent, Executive Director From left to right Board Committees C Chairman M Member Keki M N G Subramaniam Hanne Sorensen Rajesh Gopinathan Audit Committee Mistry COO CEO & MD Nomination and Remuneration Committee C C M I M M NE M M I M M M NE
Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee N Chandrasekaran Aarthi Dr Pradeep Kumar Don Callahan Chairman Subramanian Khosla Corporate Social Responsibility Committee C C M N M N C M I M M I
Executive Committee O P Bhatt Risk Management Committee* C M M I *Samir Seksaria (Chief Financial Officer) is also a member of the Committee Board of Directors | 4

Management Team Corporate Business Heads Rajesh Gopinathan Rajashree R Susheel Vasudevan Suresh Muthuswami Chief Executive Officer Chief Marketing Relationship Incubation Chairman – TCS North and Managing Director Officer Group America N G Subramaniam K Ananth Krishnan Krishnan Ramanujam Amit Bajaj Chief Operating Officer Chief Technology Enterprise Growth Group North America and Executive Director Officer Debashis Ghosh Sapthagiri Chapalapalli Samir Seksaria Madhav Anchan Business Transformation Europe Chief Financial Officer General Counsel Legal Group K Krithivasan Amit Kapur Milind Lakkad Pradeep Manohar Banking, Financial Services UK & Ireland Chief Human Resources Gaitonde and Insurance Officer Company Secretary Management Team | 5

Letter from the Chairman The supply chain upheavals during the past couple of years are driving a shift towards rebalancing and resilience. As companies seek real-time data to transform their supply chains, AI and predictive analytics help capture insights and react to changing conditions. Your company is helping companies reconfigure their supply chains to ensure that they can serve their customers and stakeholders on time.
Letter from the Chairman | 6

The change in technology consumption reflects and also of our ecosystem through our Co-Innovation the prevailing trends in the economy. Recent events Network which includes leading academic institutions have accelerated digital adoption, put the spotlight and start-ups working on cutting-edge technologies.
sustainability imperative. Each of these represents an form of AI-powered products and platforms that give The past couple of years have been a period of opportunity that can contribute towards the growth customers actionable intelligence.
$25 billion in revenues, experiencing strong growth landscape and strengthen their core by building emissions, reduce their carbon footprint and get closer of 15.9%, adding an all-time high incremental a cloud-based digital foundation and embedding to their net zero goals.
Letter from the Chairman | 7

companies reconfigure their supply chains in many We leverage four forms of capital - Intellectual, I look forward to sharing with you more milestones ways, including rolling out connected logistics to Technological, Human, and Financial - to bridge in this journey in the coming years. On behalf of the efficiently manage business disruption and ensure that the opportunity gap for people and communities. Board of Directors of Tata Consultancy Services, they can serve their customers and stakeholders on Our primary focus areas are education, skilling, I want to thank you for your continued trust, time. employment, and entrepreneurship. Additionally, we confidence, and support.
invest in basic health and wellness, water sanitation I strongly believe that technology is at its most and hygiene, conservation, and disaster relief efforts.
families in dealing with the pandemic, including healthy, educated, digitally skilled, become rural organizing what was perhaps the largest vaccination entrepreneurs and gain employment.
legacy of the Tata group, we work closely with our is moving from pursuing opportunities, to shaping communities to create equitable, inclusive pathways those opportunities in the years ahead.
for all, especially women, youth and marginalized groups.
Letter from the Chairman | 8

Letter from the 1 CEO Our new purpose-designed organization structure, along with continued investments in building newer capabilities, next generation delivery models and assets that help our clients innovate at scale, and in building our brand, will help us deepen our customer relationships, expand our addressable market, gain market share and power growth in the Dear Stakeholder, years ahead.
Our cash conversion continues to be very strong, to the pandemic.
with a cash conversion ratio of 104.2% and free Given that context, I am grateful that on the business cash flow of `36,985 crore.
front we have much to feel happy about and celebrate.
year, we successfully completed our fourth buyback (15.4% in constant currency).
at 20%. Our Earnings Per Share was at `103.62, April 2022. This amounts to over 102.8% of the growing 16.1%* over the prior year. free cash flow.
1 GRI 2-22 Letter from the CEO | 9
*Excluding provision towards legal claim in prior year.

Beyond the headline numbers, we are pleased with cloud transformation journeys . However, the mindsets are engaging us to develop innovative technology- the holistic nature of the growth, broad-based have changed. During the year, enterprises moved led solutions to reduce energy consumption, or to across all our industry verticals and major markets, from thinking of technology-led innovation as a way measure and track green-house gas emissions across and with a steadily expanding number of growth and of coping with pandemic challenges, to looking at it as their end-to-end supply chain, reduce their carbon transformation engagements in the portfolio. a means of powering their growth and transformation footprint, reduce waste and promote recycling.
Growth was led by Retail and Consumer Business We are very proud of the steadily expanding number moved their most critical workloads to the cloud.
property, deepening digital expertise, cultivating All our major markets grew in the mid-teens or above. In FY 2022, we won deals addressing a broad technology partnerships and building our brand.
be traced back to the innovation that enterprises agendas. We have leveraged our deep expertise in hope into business and trust in the enterprise.
up with a suite of offerings in this space, including All-time High Order Book operational resilience.
Letter from the CEO | 10

digital core, is coming to an end as a key demand contextual knowledge of our clients’ business and deals of all sizes. The total contract value of deals driver. Far from it, we saw strong deal flow right technology landscapes, gained while executing signed in the first three quarters averaged between through the year from Horizon One initiatives. Horizon One and other ADM programs, are critical $7-8 billion per quarter, capped by an all-time high The sheer scale, depth of consulting expertise and for our ability to proactively pitch innovative ideas and order book of $11.3 billion in the fourth quarter. The full-service capabilities of our dedicated business solutions for their growth and transformation. robustness of the deal flow at the close of the year units on each of the three large hyperscalers, and the becomes evident when even after excluding the two investments we have made in building a rich portfolio The other big demand driver was outsourcing of mega deals of roughly a billion dollars each won in of accelerators and toolsets for automating application business and IT operations. There were three key Q4, the order book TCV in Q4 was $9.5 billion, which and data estate modernization and cloud migration reasons why enterprises outsourced more in FY is also an all-time high. The full year order book was give us a distinct edge in this opportunity. 2022: the need to free up people as well as financial $34.6 billion, our highest ever, representing a book resources to execute their growth and transformation to bill ratio of 1.3.
involved, but also because it is a gateway to the Throughout the year, these three trends – increased drive, covering over a million individuals – employees unbounded opportunity that the downstream spend on innovation and transformation, cloud and their dependents.
Letter from the CEO | 11

This philosophy, and our progressive policies and work organization crossed 50,000 this year, 24% of them organizations like the UNICEF and the European culture have resulted in a very strong employer brand, women. Food Banks Federation which are helping support war validated by several third-party assessments and refugees streaming into neighboring countries. We accolades during the year. This played an critical role The year also witnessed a sharp rise in employee are also matching funds raised by employees, families, in helping your company cope with the industry-wide turnover across the industry. TCS’ attrition in IT and their networks, up to 500,000 Euros, as donation supply side challenges during the year. services (LTM) was 17.4% in FY 2022. Despite the to these two organizations.
of 103,546 employees. energy across TCS’ global operations growing to skills development and the bridging of digital divides.
37.2% of the total (15.6% in FY 2021).
over 153 nationalities represented. We crossed depth of impact, touching the lives of over 1.7 million Looking Ahead an important diversity milestone this year, with the beneficiaries – women, youth and marginalized people.
development programs, the number of women senior 146 customer organizations and connected with over strong, structural growth drivers for the next few executives has grown 84% over the last 5 years, 50 government leaders on collaborative community years.
efforts.
significantly higher than the male cohort.
The geo-political tensions in Europe and the resultant Organic talent development continues to be a key TCSers have also been quick to respond to the impact on global economic growth are real threats.
Letter from the CEO | 12

evolving market dynamics may prompt reprioritizing of do, making them feel special, and investing in newer service lines to stitch together solutions that address programs, we are confident that technology spending capabilities to create value in newer areas of their our clients’ business needs when the relationship itself will continue to grow. That growth and our businesses, has paid us rich dividends. Regardless is in its hyper growth phase; and the Business expanding market share give us confidence of being of how large we get, we want to make sure that Transformation Group that will manage our largest able to sustain a certain base case growth, with room our customer focus never wavers, and every client clients and help them accomplish their growth and to maximize in better years. continues to feel just as valued. transformation objectives.
launchpad to achieve even greater heights. For this to relationship journey with TCS. maturity with TCS being their preferred growth and happen we are focusing on two things. transformation partner.
the G&T opportunity, and put in place a structured us. That is how we have steadily grown and deepened relationships, expand our addressable market, gain way to deepen existing innovation and transformation relationships with nearly 60 clients globally who spend market share and power growth in the years ahead.
engagements, while expanding the number of clients more than $100 million on us annually. We thank you for your continued support in this for whom we provide such services. exciting journey ahead.
Letter from the CEO | 13

The Year Gone By Announced a new organization structure designed to provide a curated experience to each customer depending on where they are in the customer Q Won a very large contract from relationship lifecycle journey. Leveraging TCS’ a Fortune 100 US company, large and deep bench of leadership talent, the new 4 further expanding the long-standing structure further deepens the customer-centricity partnership, to transform the that TCS was always known for, and is expected With three decades of technology at its global data centers to help make TCS the preferred growth and experience in delivering market into a future-ready, hybrid cloud stack for greater transformation partner to more of its clientele.
we help shape the future of that will allow Canadians to initiate payments and student programs.
receive irrevocable funds in seconds, 24/7/365. TCS payments in Canada.
billion (+12.5%) year on year, to $16.8 billion in Completed the fourth successful share buyback 2021.
extinguishing 4 crore equity shares, representing
1.08% of the total paid-up equity share capital.
The Year Gone By | 14

Tata Group Chairperson and TCS Chairman, N Chandrasekaran, was conferred the Padma Bhushan, the third highest civilian award in India, for distinguished service of high order in the field of trade and industry.
and reliability, the Passport Seva program became an icon of Digital India and a source of national pride.
City Marathon through 2029, and became the new in the UK, its number one ranking in customer title and technology sponsor of the TCS London satisfaction, and its community initiatives.
Ranked #1 in Customer Satisfaction in the largest Marathon for six years starting 2022.
Research, for the ninth consecutive year, covering Selected by the Government of India to drive the comprehensive set of modular, quickly deployable 1,800 CxOs from top IT spending companies in second phase of the pathbreaking Passport Seva cyber security services offered on a platform.
transformed the citizen experience at its nationwide intelligence to proactively defend and respond against Named the new title sponsor and official IT services network of Passport Seva centers. Setting global evolving threats.
The Year Gone By | 15

Celebrated a milestone with the number Q
of women in the workforce crossing 3 200,000 in December. Women-centric leadership development initiatives have resulted in the number of senior women executives growing 84% over the last 5 years. The company is part of the 2022 Bloomberg Gender- Equality Index that tracks the performance of public companies committed to transparency in gender-data reporting.
to the new AWS Mainframe Modernization platform.
Gained further market share in the UK, Q
and was ranked #1 by revenue in the 2 UK Software and IT Services Rankings 2021 by TechMarketView. The company Became title partner to Jaguar Racing ahead performed very well in the rankings of the 2021/22 ABB FIA Formula E World by sub-category as well, topping the Applications Operations category, and ranking #3 in Consulting Championship. The team will now be known as and Solutions.
promote low carbon emissions and sustainable mobility.
The Year Gone By | 16

Launched `Rebegin’, an initiative to enable Selected by the Multi-Commodity Exchange experienced women professionals who had taken India Ltd (MCX) as its technology partner a work sabbatical due to family commitments, to for Project Udaan. TCS will help MCX build a reclaim their careers and pursue their professional new technology core, transforming its trading as aspirations in TCS. Over 14,000 job applications well as post-trade functions, to support its future were received under this initiative in FY 2022. growth and further strengthen its leadership position in the commodity derivatives market in Launched TCS Google Garages at the TCS India.
intelligence (AI) capabilities using design thinking Dutch Open enrich participant and spectator 2021/2022 Inner Circle, and also awarded two and agile development to rapidly address business experience. 2021 Microsoft Partner of the Year Awards.
Partnered with the Australian Energy Market competency development, expertise, specialization Operator (AEMO) to implement the switch from badges, and growth of its customer base.
30-minute settlement to 5-minute settlement in the national wholesale electricity spot market.
faster response technologies, such as batteries and gas peaking generators.
over 50 market-critical institutions across 66 countries.
The Year Gone By | 17

Inaugurated TCS Pace Port™ Amsterdam, a Samir Seksaria took over as the company’s Q
co-innovation and advanced research center where Chief Financial Officer on May 1, 2021, 1 TCS teams will co-innovate with European customers, following the retirement of V Ramakrishnan drawing on an ecosystem of partners from academia, (`Ramki’). He started his career in TCS in government institutions, start-ups and technology 1999. He moved to Corporate Finance providers. The center will enable ideation and rapid prototyping in 2004 and played a critical role in the with a clear focus on finding and creating sustainable solutions. company’s IPO. Prior to becoming CFO, he headed the financial analytics, planning and business finance functions. On November 1, 2021, Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde stepped in as the Company Secretary in place of Rajendra Moholkar who retired.
employees in India getting fully vaccinated and 95% receiving at least one dose.
The Year Gone By | 18

TCS’ Integrated Business Model for Value Creation using the Five Capitals Intellectual Capital Domain knowledge, contextual knowledge, patents, products and platforms Partners Contextual Technology and COIN Knowledge Human Capital Skills, competencies, capabilities, knowledge OPERATIONS and motivation of employees Research & Innovation Products & Platforms FINANCIAL CAPITAL Services & Solutions Sources of funds from VALUE business operations, Natural Capital Talent Acquisition CUSTOMER financing or investing Renewable & Non-renewable Resources Talent Engagement activities ENGAGEMENT Talent Development Customer Goodwill/Brand Value/CSR/Taxes Social & Relationship Capital Investors, Customers, Employees,Communities Goodwill Stakeholder Payout, Reserves TCS' Integrated Business Model | 19

Financial Capital The 25-fold revenue growth over the last 20 years is a testimony to the Outcomes strength of our business model and our ability to reinvent ourselves in an • Best in class profitability and strong balance sheet provide greater ability to invest in ever-evolving technology landscape to stay relevant to our customers while newer capabilities and to weather economic downturns, macro uncertainties remaining focused on creating value for all our stakeholders. • Consistently high shareholder returns enhances social and relationship capital Economic Value Generated and Distributed1 detubirtsiD eulaV cimonocE ₹ 107,554 cr ₹ 35,747 cr ₹ 13,238 cr + 17.1% +19.6% + 15.5%* Employee cost Other cost of operations Tax expense ₹ 191,754 cr + 16.8% Economic value generated ₹ 855 cr ₹ 2,242 cr ₹ 38,010 cr + 16.0% + 17.0% + 12.2% Community Investments R&D and innovation Shareholder payout including innovation including unpaid final center development dividend, Buyback and taxes 1 GRI 201-1
Financial Capital | 20 * Excluding provision towards legal claim in prior year

Financial Highlights Earnings per share ^ CAGR 9.2%
FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021* FY 2022 (Amount in `) ^ Earnings per share is adjusted for bonus issue * Excluding provision towards legal claim 01.76 50.38 91.68 72.98 26.301 Operating Profit Trend 25.6% 25.9% 25.3% 24.8% 24.6%
FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021* FY 2022 (` crore) Operating Margin 205,03 054,73 085,83 184,24 354,84 Operating Profit OCF and Cash Conversion 116.2% 104.2% 100.1% 97.1% 90.9%
FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021* FY 2022 (` crore) 760,52 395,82 963,23 208,83 949,93 Revenue Trend
CAGR 10.2% FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2022
(` crore) Cash Usage# 1.8% 7.5% Shareholder Distribution 0.2% Capex Acquisitions, etc.
92.6% 98.6% 99.2% FY 2018 FY 2019 FY 2020 FY 2021* FY 2022
Dividend Special Buyback Shareholder Payout ratio Dividend including (Including special dividend tax and buyback, including tax) (` crore) # includes proposed final dividend Financial Capital | 21

Human Capital TCS Employees by Region, Age and Gender2 Best in Class Talent Management1 17.4% 592,195 103,546 LTM
Employees Employees attrition in IT services Workforce Net Addition Talent Retention Globally distributed highly localized Highest ever Best in the Industry APAC
03 < sry M F
04-03 sry M
F 05-04 sry M
F 05> sry Emerging Markets
M 6% F 3%
14% 6% 24% 19% 14% 14 % 03 < sry M F
04-03 sry M
F 05-04 sry M
F 05> sry Europe
M 5% F 2%
11% 5% 26% 12% 25% 14 % 03 < sry M F
04-03 sry M F
05-04 sry M F
05> sry M 19% F 6%
17% 6% 19% 11% 13% 9% 03 < sry M F
04-03 sry M F
05-04 sry M F
05> sry India M 1%
F 0.1% 6% 1% 23% 10% 34% 25% 03 < sry M
F 04-03 sry M
F 05-04 sry M
F 05> sry North America
M 15% F 5%
21% 6% 20% 10% 16% 7% United Kingdom 03 < sry M F
04-03 sry M F
05-04 sry M F
05> sry M 15% Talent Diversity and Inclusion2 Rebegin F 11% New program for women 14,000 17% seeking to rejoin work job applications 11% after a career break received 15% 10% 11% 153 3 Generations Rising up the ranks 10% Nationalities 88% Millennials % Women improved at mid- and senior levels over last 5 years 43.2% 210,000+ Women 35.6% of workforce 41.5% 31.1% 84%+ Increase in senior women 28.9% 13.3% executives over last 5 years 11.7% 678 Women patent holders Junior Middle Senior FY 2018 FY 2022
Human Capital | 22 1 GRI 401-1, 2 GRI 405-1

Talent Development TCS takes a purpose-centric approach to learning and development that leverages 3.5 horizontal collaboration and the abundance million 171,000 of internal talent in an ecosystem where the training is just-in-time, just-for-me and just-enough. Digital competencies Employees deep acquired skilled Average Learning Hours per employee3 121 hrs 77 Senior 91 Male Middle 53 50 Female 154 Junior 144 Fresher Training TCS Elevate Contextual Masters Xplore foundational virtual training with certifications, Linking learning to career growth Talent with potential to be tomorrow’s G&T leaders daily webinars, weekly assessments and gamified contests 50,000 CMs 13,000 100,000+ Employees identified as high +169% YoY trainees onboarded.
Human Capital | 23 3 GRI 404-1

Four dimensions of TCS’ Research and Innovation:
solutions in the core business, delivering seamless human-machine collaboration and incremental benefits using existing transform the client’s way of doing business.
functionality in existing products and ADD™, TCS TwinXTM, Sustainability solutions external facing brands:
hyperscaler clouds. Eg: TCS MastercraftTM, QuartzTM impact industry and society.
• TCS PaceTM brings the best of TCS’ intellectual content, innovation assets, capabilities, and practices to clients.
Highlights:
Innovation Centers COIN to connect ecosystems and transform not yet realized. Includes: cognitive robotics;
for materials, manufacturing & life sciences, and personalized nutrition and medicine.
Intellectual Capital | 24

TCS Suite of Products and Platforms B NCS
Digital Advantage for Life Sciences • 22 new wins (50% of the new wins were on • Onboarded 700+ corporates to enable job • Comprehensive suite for digital transformation TCS BaNCS Cloud) and 16 go lives in FY 2022 outcome linkage through TCS NQT of drug development and clinical trials • Highlights: • Conducted ~45 million in-center and ~2.9 • Clients include 10 of the Top 12 global pharma • Services more than 35% of the world’s million remote assessments at national and companies; total number of clients: 19 banking population regional scale • 700+ clinical trials supported by TCS ADD • More than 100 million transactions run on • 110+ new wins in India and 15 in international Platforms till date, Implemented across TCS BaNCS Cloud daily market 50,000+ sites across the world.
subscription-based businesses
• 268 million candidates assessed till date;
customers went live • 136 patents filed till date; 37 granted and price in an integrated manner.
Intellectual Capital | 25

MasterCraft • AI powered system of actionable intelligence – • Digital platform to optimally automate and • Intelligent smart contract development toolkits, powered by an enterprise digital twin (customer, manage IT processes Integration solutions and ‘Designed for DLT’ product, process) to help business leaders • FY 2022 Highlights: 46 billion records processed business solutions that provides foundational simulate and optimise enterprise decisions, for data privacy, 8.2+ billion Records processed technology, tools and business components for predict and proactively manage outcomes for data quality, 8.8+ million lines of code (mloc) creating distributed ledger solutions across • 20 new wins and 9 go-lives in FY 2022 analyzed, thus helping clients get the right varied industries • TwinX Business Highlights: insights from legacy code and automate • Built on the core principles of co-existence, • Risk Free Experimentation Users: 5000+ the business rules extraction with an overall integration and interoperability. Quartz enables • Number of End- Customer Orders Processed: productivity improvement of 20% - 30%, 3.4+ existing systems to coexist and integrate with 33 Mn mloc of high-quality Java and JavaScript codes blockchain platforms and other messaging • Number of Digital Twin transactions: 10 Mn generated, resulting in 50% more productivity in networks • New Product Ideations: 20 development • 7 new wins in FY 2022 • Safety Twin ensures zero harm workplace/ saves • 27 new wins in FY 2022 precious human lives in hazardous anufacturing facilities • Launched in Google Cloud in Oct 21 • SaaS-based, scalable Agile DevOps • AI powered unified commerce platform that platform to accelerate software can flexibly orchestrate unified omnichannel development and delivery and integrate customer journeys and help businesses roll out DevOps tools new services and apps quickly without having • 13,000+ active users till date to worry about channel constraints. It can serve diverse lines of business – general merchandise, discount, specialty, fashion, restaurant, post office, telecom, and travel and hospitality industries.
Intellectual Capital | 26

Social Good TCS Research collaborated with Prayas Help TCS’ inventors and innovators continued to A number of assistive technologies have emerged Group to develop a digital twin of Pune city to mentor young social entrepreneurs as part of from TCS R&I, including Assisto (speech aid for predict the spread of the pandemic and help TCS Foundation’s Digital Impact Square (DISQ). cerebral palsy); VHAB (Immersive Physio); Verbose devise local strategies to control it. Over 30 start-ups are currently under various (Speech-to-text); School at Home assistance phases of incubation and graduation under for disabled; Emotrain (Training for Autistic) and DISQ. Prominent themes around which social Home Bound (COVID related remote medical challenges are being addressed include AgriTech, assistance). These were especially useful during Assistive Tech, Citizen Services Tech, EduTech, the pandemic, where much of the training and HealthTech and Sustainability Tech. support for children with special needs had to be virtual.
Intellectual Capital | 27

Relationship and Outcomes • Expanding participation across broad range of Social Capital stakeholders across the enterprise including business heads, CMOs, CROs, COOs, CFOs and even CEOs TCS’ business model and strategy have resulted in • Continual expansion of customer relationships in deep and enduring customer relationships, a vibrant terms of services consumed and engaged workforce, a steady expansion of its • Highly satisfied customers addressable market, a strong reputation as a responsible corporate citizen and a proven track record in delivering longer term stakeholder value. All of this has significantly enhanced the company’s brand value, which is a quantifiable measure of its social and relationship capital with stakeholders.
Customer-centricity is at the core of TCS’ business model, organization structure and investment decisions.
building newer capabilities, and launching new services and solutions.
26.301 2020/21 EUROPE
2019/20 EUROPE 2014 EUROPE Whitelane Research Whitelane Research Whitelane Research Large Client Metrics Rev per US$ 1 Million+ Client ($ Mn) 268 207 19.8 21.7 120 97 58 38
FY 2018 FY 2022 FY 2018 FY 2022 US$ 20Mn+ US$ 50Mn+ US$ 100Mn+ Growth 9.7% Relationship and Social Capital | 28

Branding TCS’ reputation for customer-centricity, domain depth and execution excellence have made it the preferred growth and transformation partner to leading corporations across the world. It is also recognized as a top employer brand across the major markets it operates in, including North America, Europe, UK, India, Latin America and Australia, among others.
Investor and Analyst Interactions in FY2022 according to Brand Finance.
Source: Brand Finance FY 2021 FY 2022
68 29 Investors TCS is seen as a benchmark in its outreach to investors, its transparency and disclosures, publicly communicating its longer- term strategy, qualitative aspects of the demand outlook, risks and opportunities, reducing information asymmetries and enabling fair valuation of the stock. For the last many years, it has been awarded the Best Investor Relations award by publications like Institutional Investor, FinanceAsia and AsiaMoney based on polls of investors and analysts in the region.
$2.3 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY
2010 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 ($ billion) Relationship and Social Capital | 29

Awards & Recognition TCS rose to be the second most Valuable IT Services Brand Brand Finance Awards Jaguar TCS Racing TCS Toronto TCS Europe Summit 2022 Waterfront Marathon 2022 2022 Relationship and Social Capital | 30

295 003 6.81 211 174 851 866 853 Natural Capital Achievements TCS is in a unique position to combine its heritage of purpose along with digital leadership and innovation to drive its own 64.4% 1.65 10.2 37.2% PUE MW
journey to more sustainable outcomes, as well as partner with % Total office space Energy efficiency initiatives Rooftop solar Renewable electricity as % of customers, civil society and governments to lead and shape (for India) as per IGBC at TCS data centers in capacity across total electricity consumed solutions towards the achievement of the UN Sustainable standards Mumbai and Chennai campuses Development Goals.
Energy Management and GHG Emissions Reduction Outcomes Target: 70% reduction of Scope 1 + 2 emissions by 2025 (vs base Reduced Energy …Increased Use of … reduced TCS’ Carbon footprint.
year 2016) and Net Zero by 2030 Consumption and… Renewable Energy..
• 89% of emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 due to purchased electricity for office blocks.
• Use of Clever Energy to optimize energy consumption and greater use of renewable energy.
• 5 large campuses in India certified with ISO 50001: 2018 standards for Energy Management Systems (EnMS).
7AFFORDABLE 11SUSTAINABLE 9INDUSTRY AND CLEAN CITIES AND INNOVATION AND
ENERGY COMMUNITIES INFRASTRUCTURE FY 2016 FY 2022 FY 2016 FY 2022 FY 2016 FY 2022 FY 2016 FY 2022 Total Energy Renewable Energy Total Scope 1 + 2 Value chain emissions Consumed in GWh Consumed in GWh emissions in ‘000 tCO2e in '000 tCO2e 12RESPONSIBLE 13CLIMATE Scope 3 emissions C A O N N D S UMPTION ACTION Employee commutes and business travel cause ~50% of these value chain emissions. Remote PRODUCTION working and reduced business travel resulted in a sharp reduction.
Natural Capital | 31

Water Conservation Waste Reduction & Reuse 1 12 2R CREO E S S NP P OS O NU N SMI S BP I L B TE L IO E N 13C A L C I T M IO A N TE Target: 3% YoY reduction in freshwater consumption across owned campuses Target: Reduction in waste ACONNDS UMPTION generation, maximizing PANRDO DPRUOCDTUICOTNION
6CLEAN WATER 12RESPONSIBLE 13CLIMATE recycling/ reuse to divert waste AND CONSUMPTION ACTION
SANITATION AND sent to landfill PRODUCTION
Recycling of regulated wastes, e-waste, printer 100% cartridges, paper, packaging and plastics.
and employee awareness. All new campuses have been designed for 50% higher water efficiency, 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting.
enhancement initiatives within 14LIFE BELOW 15LIFE ON WATER LAND
1.44 Bn 5.2% 84% TCS campuses.
Natural Capital | 32

Partnering with Takeda to Innovate at Scale Takeda, the global biopharmaceutical giant, is on at scale, TCS helped Takeda envisage an innovation • TCS helped build a drug substance optimization a digital transformation journey to innovatively factory delivery model called Enhanced Digital Global solution that uses machine learning to help supply use technology to create better experiences and Experience (EDGE). planners optimally allocate the raw materials for drug outcomes for patients, providers and payers. This production, leading to a reduction in raw material means innovating continuously on not only in core Departing from the traditional business analysis and scrappage and an additional amount of doses drug development but also in behind-the-scenes design-build-test linear project life cycle, EDGE produced annually.
therapies reach more patients, faster. Leveraging cloud technologies, design thinking, and real-time visibility of product consignments for a location independent agile software development newly launched product with a very short shelf life.
Pace™, a philosophy and framework for innovation operations. A few examples: to optimize on time and cost of shipments while reducing carbon impact.
TCS to set up and run an innovation factory controlled substance drug products.
over 40 potential use cases and reduced the time-to- technologies to transform our business.
Hansjoerg Magalhaes innovation at scale.
Customer Stories | 33

Co-Innovating with Bovemij to Fulfill its Mission and Drive Growth For the last 60 years, Bovemij has been providing a TCS also set up a digital innovation factory, for variety of insurance services such as auto, fire, legal repeatable agile innovation at scale, to take each of assistance, financing and other business services to the business propositions and deliver them to market mobility companies – vehicle dealerships, fleet owners, at speed. A minimum viable product was put together and service centers – in the Netherlands to help them in six weeks, with relevant user stories to demonstrate compete successfully in the marketplace. outcomes and gain acceptance of internal and external stakeholders.
Bovemij is committed to help the mobility ecosystem thrive in the connect Bovemij’s mobility other ecosystem partners.
rapidly build out each such proposition. Their expertise, creative new revenue streams and drive growth.
ideas and agile ways helped us get our platform up and running much faster than we had anticipated.
Customer Stories | 34

business context of every enterprise. The next trigger often struggle to innovate at that pace on their own, INNOVATING FOR GREATER
was the adaptation required to compete in many for lack of processes, toolsets and also sufficient FUTURES: contexts created by digital business models. Finally, as dedicated bandwidth A PANEL DISCUSSION enterprises are moving into a post-pandemic world of new risks, challenges and opportunities, a more Partnering with TCS can help them overcome all strategic, purpose driven strategy is driving innovation. these issues. We help them create a strategic agenda Why are enterprises accelerating their using our tools and methods, especially our ‘Clay Map’, investments in innovation? How does These factors are driving enterprises to develop a wide named so in honor of the late Clayton Christensen TCS help enterprises innovate for greater and deep innovation capability, which can scale. This is who greatly influenced our thinking on innovation.
strategy, create an innovation portfolio and scale the execution of innovation.
and academic partners at our Pace Ports™ to harvest many more innovation candidates than on their own.
Panel Discussion | 35

repeatable process which can significantly scale up and and our differentiated inside-out approach to What we have observed is that as speed up their innovation. transformation to help bring their G&T visions to soon as enterprises simplify their IT fruition.
across procurement, logistics and finance, and building leading academic institutions, `Future of Business’ innovative digital assets at twice the velocity. frameworks, W12 design studios, and our products them in production shoots up.
Krishnan: The three broad themes around which we Optunique™, ADD, ignio™, Bringing Life to Things™, saw our clients innovate the most were growth and Cloudonomy™, and Cognix™ among others.
years’ annual reports as well. largest deal wins were around transforming clients’ IT their legacy technology stacks? How do they and business operating models, and their supply chain overcome that challenge?
RS Components described in our FY 2022 annual to build APIs or middleware that enable their digital report2, or the work we have done for Bayer, Damen Lastly, we saw clients focus heavily on sustainability strategies, though they are suboptimal.
of intellectual property, digital engineering expertise to the worldwide collective effort to mitigate climate are able to anchor or participate in ecosystems at will, change and build greater futures. which drives growth and innovation.
1 Page 33, 2 Pages 41, 34 and 45 respectively

You may recall the scalable, customer-centric digital How do you see clients’ transition from Is that why smaller companies are growing operating model we built for the Phoenix Group, using Horizon One to Horizon Two spending affect faster? Also, is that why you adopted a new TCS BaNCS3 . Our platform is extensible, supporting the your growth? Will there be a slump and organization structure?
required APIs and microservices for them to leverage subsequent recovery?
are increasingly executed using Agile methods. The transformations. Besides enhanced ability to integrate Horizon Two initiatives. These progress concurrently.
with those powerful technologies to reimagine different model innovation. That is how we have been able to give book.
have come down on the heritage stacks. That is because to invest for the longer-term growth of their businesses, Horizon One opportunity.
enterprises are in the midst of a technology transition.
initiatives. One large US client of ours for whom we are In the last couple of years, the industry has building a new, cloud-native digital platform to support seen deal sizes reducing. What is driving that? support our future growth.
their business forays into adjacencies, calls it their `save to invest’ strategy.
3 Integrated AR FY 2021, Page 22

infrastructure, application and data estates will outsourcing demand. Also, smaller players are enjoying The industry didn’t see too many billion- eventually be replaced, re-engineered, re-platformed strong demand from clients in the small and medium dollar deals in FY 2022. How important are or retired. Given the desire to get this transformation enterprise category, with little competition from larger they for longer-term growth?
done rapidly, they are outsourcing the run and change providers.
true if you look at the global cohort. Even though the we grow. It is also designed to help us replicate best longer term growth need not be exaggerated versus bottom quartile by revenue size had its best growth practices across our client base and expand the smaller deals of say, $100million+ TCV.
The severe talent scarcity is also driving a broad find an alternative strategic provider with a richer set and ended with an all-time high order book of of capabilities and a superior execution track record.
However, the sharp recovery and subsequent growth progression.
dollar deals are especially important more on pursuing their immediate technology inflation and the looming threat of a priorities.
because they boost medium-term technology and on your growth outlook?
two such deals during the year. the longer-term consolidation trends are very much all times, good or bad. In good times, enterprises intact.
Panel Discussion | 38

Partnering with TCS to innovate So even in an economic slowdown, innovation doesn’t So conventional wisdom on technology spending, at scale will enable them to try out stop. They may reprioritize one program over another based on historic behaviors during prior slowdowns, based on shifting objectives, but the spending will may not be as reliable. In the post-pandemic world, more ideas, and experiment more continue. Partnering with TCS to innovate at scale will we expect technology spending to hold up well even extensively with the same budget, enable them to try out more ideas, and experiment in a downturn.
We can’t predict the future, but based simply on the innovation investment. the yield on their innovation investment.
half – the GFC, taper tantrums, Eurozone crisis, we remain confident that we are on a good growth Brexit, the pandemic and now the war and the trajectory for the next three to five years.
environment and over these events, we have survived, or increased customer intimacy.
nature of the services we offer to businesses across re-designing the value chain at a strategic level.
the world.
last two years, even in the face of bleak business Today, technology is central to any enterprise.
consumer behavior, and to cope with the operational sales. These are all recent structural changes.
challenges posed by the pandemic.
Panel Discussion | 39

Transforming Israel’s Banking Sector The Government of Israel’s Ministry of Finance was various regulatory authorities and market data looking to encourage the entry of new digital-only providers.
institutions in the world. the bank will be open for all customers in the coming months.
easily plug into, to launch their operations quickly consume only specific best-in-class capabilities to gain and securely. It connects to the entire banking and competitive differentiation and drive growth.
and data privacy. Bank Hapoalim, Israel’s largest bank, potential to deliver an innovative alternate to traditional banks.
with a 30% share of all bank guarantees in the country, While we have started with Israel, we are keen to grow in other markets has signed up for this platform.
banking, including the necessary infrastructure and operational processes. This has given us the space to focus on our core offerings and launch banking services in rapid time.
Customer Stories | 40

Enabling Swiss Re’s Risk Partnership Strategy for Future Growth Swiss Re, one of the world’s leading providers the underwriting quality, speed, and throughput. This The partnership with TCS will equip Swiss Re with of reinsurance, insurance, and other forms will enable Swiss Re to provide a superior customer a platform to power future growth by expanding its of insurance-based risk transfer, conducts its business experience, offer a broader range of products, and underwriting capacity to take on new business, while with a clear vision: to make the world more resilient. take on more business. creating an additional revenue stream from the ceded The company supports its clients with its deep risk distributed to other reinsurers.
access to new attractive risk pools through Swiss Re’s A distinctive aspect of Swiss Re’s business strategy is extensive network of banks and other lenders.
leverage shared knowledge, expertise, and capabilities risk knowledge and data-driven insight to – protecting more customers, in newer ways.
address inefficiencies in the market and support data-driven business decisions.
its credit and surety reinsurance business by building TCS has been a collaborative technology a cloud-native, microservices-based end-to-end partner in our drive for digital transformation.
quotes. our future growth, and solve business and global challenges.
Customer Stories | 41

How did you cope with supplyside More importantly, we addressed the structural Milind: There are two reasons. One, there was challenges due to the Great Resignation problem of industry-wide talent scarcity by training significant offshore shift during the pandemic due to this year? Is the worst behind us? and onboarding 118,000 fresh engineers in FY 2022. greater acceptance of remote working, local talent This massive infusion of fresh talent by us, as well as by scarcity, and the flow of work to where the talent Milind: Yes, it has been a challenging year for others in the industry, should start easing the problem resides. That was deflationary in nature. Second, employers all over the world. In our industry, it wasn’t in FY 2023. There are some early signs of this. Our we have been hiring additional numbers ahead as much due to the Great Resignation, as a churn attrition is plateauing on a quarterly annualized basis. of demand, in anticipation of continued growth within the industry. Peers who had not anticipated LTM attrition will likely rise further in the first half of momentum and to have a ready bench to back-fill the sharp demand recovery scrambled to fulfill it FY 2023 and after that, it should start tapering. attrition.
other’s employees, sending attrition rates shooting has significantly outstripped your revenue across the industry. growth. Where is the disconnect?
promotions, retention bonuses and increased use of sub-contractors.
Officer Resources Officer & Diversity Q&A | 42

We have kept our margins in the same Despite the strong growth during the year, tight band for over a decade now. During accountable for growth as well as profitability, while the operating margin stayed flat. How should this period, we have outgrown our largest giving them autonomy to shape the commercials of individual engagements. This has given us a class of we look at margins for the next year? and far more acquisitive local and global empowered, entrepreneurial leaders who win deals Samir: During the year, our annual salary increase peers, and delivered better margins.. going head-to-head with our most aggressive peers and the tactical interventions that Milind referred to, on prices, if need be, while making up for the impact resulted in a 330 bps margin headwind. Operating elsewhere, and delivering the committed margin at a You have had industry-leading margins leverage, improved realizations and some currency portfolio level.
Looking ahead, I expect the supplyside headwinds it is possible to pursue profitable growth without add to our capabilities or IP assets, but the decision is to persist for most of the year. Additionally, as things compromising on either. The data bears us out. We based more on valuations and ease of integration.
of large numbers of fresh engineers onboarded in largest and far more acquisitive local and global peers, management are women. What are you doing FY 2022, leverage from continued revenue growth, and delivered better margins.. to increase diversity at senior levels?
similar costs, higher margins must mean higher prices workforce, and have been running a structured program the medium term.
versus competition, and therefore lower sales. The flaw to drive diversity and inclusion within the organization.
similar, our cost of delivery is lower because of higher a broader and more inclusive view, including gender, no longer viable?
Samir: We don’t provide revenue or margin training and better employer practices, resulting in better and so on. By that measure, diversity in senior guidance. However, 26-28% remains our longer term retention. So we are able to compete very effectively, management is over 30%.
We currently have over 153 nationalities in our aside short term headwinds, we don’t see any change compromising on profitability.
best positioned to assess the tradeoffs. We hold them Q&A | 43

development, promotion and retention, and policies would certainly give us an opportunity to trumpet is demoralizing to existing employees, men and women, specifically designed to encourage talented individuals, our leadership in gender diversity. But I see this as whose own growth aspirations get derailed. One of regardless of demographic profile, to plan longer term unsustainable. the biggest contributors to our industry-leading talent careers in TCS. retention is our long-standing policy of preferring internal Women’s overall participation in the labor force here candidates for new leadership positions. Hence our organic Women make up 13% of our senior management. But is under 20%, perhaps 15% if you take the urban approach. This may take time to show on the outside, but it that figure doesn’t tell the full story. Within that cohort, workforce. The percentage at senior management levels is fairer to our employees and more sustainable in the long women fulfill 30% of our business development and is much smaller, and the available hiring pool is a fraction run.
so I find that extremely encouraging. each others' senior executives, driving up industry-level TCS’ workforce look like? Will you have a million executive churn. employees?
levels. That will expand the industry’s female leadership solution architects, and more specialists in softer areas like With continued push and with new leadership positions pool and give everyone an opportunity to avail the empathetic design and organizational change management.
opening up faster, and in larger numbers because benefits of diversity.
and hire accordingly? its scalability, and we are confident we will continue to candidates for new leadership positions. Hence remain a benchmark in talent management.
show on the outside, but it is fairer to our employees and more sustainable in the long run.
Q&A | 44

Helping RS Components Deepen Customer Relationships and Drive Profitable Growth RS Components, the world’s largest distributor of generated by the system have helped cut fresh water in other industry segments. Partnering with TCS electronics and maintenance products, is a trading consumption, and also reduce the effort and cost of for its growth and transformation has helped RS brand of UK-based Electrocomponents plc. The managing the wastewater treatment. Components embrace a new business model that company supplies industrial products, electronic makes it a valued and trusted business partner to and electrical components, test and measurement The system is also being used to help reduce the its customers, creates new revenue streams, boosts equipment, engineering tools and consumables site’s energy consumption by monitoring usage at profitability and reinforces its position as an innovation via e-commerce, telephone and RS Local stores. It a production line level, highlighting specific areas of pioneer in the industrial component ecosystem.
2,500 leading suppliers. Industria to rapidly expand the system to enable condition monitoring of critical assets.
AWS IoT based reporting and condition monitoring services, their understanding of the Amazon system that has been branded RS Industria.
for real time monitoring that provides insights into the these helped us realize our vision around causes of production losses and component failure. this new offering much faster.
Customer Stories | 45

Boosting Colruyt’s Competitiveness with Algorithmic Pricing harness the power of automation and other digital technologies to transform its pricing platform.
But this is no easy feat. Staying on top means collaboration with TCS as the strategic partner to volumes of data to generate price recommendations at near real time speed.
promotions and markdown, enabling the competitive businesses respond quickly to changes in benefits to accrue across the enterprise.
accomplish our vision to harness the power brand promise and drive growth.
to help elevate our brand and strengthen our competitive edge.
Customer Stories | 46

Transforming India’s Lending Sector with a New Digital Platform Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) are a NBFCs subscribing to the platform benefit Aadhar Housing Finance Limited, a housing finance key component of India’s financial ecosystem, helping from enhanced customer experience, improved company with a pan-India presence implemented make credit and other financial services accessible liquidity, more resilient and agile operations, and TCS’ lending and securitization solution in FY 2022 to the small-scale and unorganized sectors, and to improved regulatory compliance across lending and and has been able to transform its operations, end to the large unbanked population. However, with low securitization. Impressed with the rich functionality, end.
helped drive Aadhar’s growth and expand its market Recognizing that the industry’s fragmented structure presence.
digitize and reimagine the core processes for the sector.
The new platform is a collaborative, connected our strategy of investing in technology enabled system that transforms the end-to-end lending and solutions to improve customer experience.
securitization value chain, offering secure and timely We hope to reap the full benefit of this flow of data among stakeholders within the ecosystem. transformation to expand our market reach.
Deo Shankar Tripathi and accuracy in decision-making.
Customer Stories | 47

Notice Notice is hereby given that the twenty-seventh “RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions Annual General Meeting of Tata Consultancy of Sections 139, 142 and other applicable Services Limited will be held on Thursday, provisions, if any, of the Companies Act, 2013, June 9, 2022 at 3:30 p.m. (IST) through Video and the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, Conferencing (“VC”)/Other Audio Visual Means 2014, as amended from time to time, (“OAVM”) to transact the following business: B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No. 101248W/W–100022)
1. To receive, consider and adopt:
Limited and/or its subsidiaries and the Equity Shares for the financial year 2021-22.
rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for To consider and if thought fit, to pass the re-appointment. following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Notice | 48

amended from time to time, services; (c) purchase/sale/exchange/transfer/ this resolution) be and is hereby authorised to (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), the applicable lease of business asset(s) and/or equipments to do all such acts, deeds, matters and things as it provisions of the Companies Act, 2013 (“Act”) meet its business objectives/requirements; may deem fit at its absolute discretion and to read with Rules made thereunder, other (d) transfer of any resources, services or take all such steps as may be required in this applicable laws/statutory provisions, if any, obligations to meet its business objectives/ connection including finalizing and executing (including any statutory modification(s) or requirements (“Related Party Transactions”) on necessary documents, contract(s), scheme(s), amendment(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof, for such material terms and conditions as detailed agreement(s) and such other documents as may the time being in force), the Company’s Policy in the explanatory statement to this Resolution be required, seeking all necessary approvals to on Related Party Transactions, and subject and as may be mutually agreed between give effect to this resolution, for and on behalf to such approval(s), consent(s), permission(s) related parties and the Company, for each of the Company and settling all such issues, as may be necessary from time to time and of the financial years (FY) from FY 2022-23 questions, difficulties or doubts whatsoever basis the approval and recommendation of the to FY 2026-27 i.e. five financial years, such that may arise and to take all such decisions Audit Committee and the Board of Directors that the maximum value of the Related Party from powers herein conferred to, without being of the Company, the approval of the Members Transactions with such parties, in aggregate, required to seek further consent or approval of the Company be and is hereby accorded does not exceed value as specified under each of the Members and that the Members shall be to the Company to enter/continue to enter category for each financial year, provided deemed to have given their approval thereto into Material Related Party Transaction(s)/ that the said contract(s)/arrangement(s)/ expressly by the authority of this resolution.” Contract(s)/Arrangement(s)/Agreement(s) transaction(s) shall be carried out in the ordinary “RESOLVED FURTHER that all actions taken (whether by way of an individual transaction course of business of the Company and in by the Board in connection with any matter or transactions taken together or series of respect of transactions with related parties referred to or contemplated in this resolution, transactions or otherwise) with entities falling under Section 2(76) of the Act, are at arm’s be and are hereby approved, ratified and within the definition of ‘Related Party’ under length basis.’ confirmed in all respects.” Section 2(76) of the Act and Regulation 2(1)(zb) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, in the course “RESOLVED FURTHER that the Board of 6. Place of keeping and inspection of the of (a) availing and rendering of IT services/ Directors of the Company (hereinafter referred Registers and Annual Returns of the Company ITeS/consulting service(s) (b) reimbursement of to as ‘Board’ which term shall be deemed to To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, the expenses including towards availing/providing include the Audit Committee of the Company following resolution as a Special Resolution:

pursuant to the provisions of Section 94 Notes: hereto. Further, the relevant details with respect and other applicable provisions, if any, of the to Item No. 3 pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) and the rules 1. In view of the continuing COVID-19 pandemic, the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure made thereunder (including any statutory the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) has Requirements) Regulations, 2015 modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof vide its General Circular nos. 14/2020 and (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) and Secretarial for the time being in force), approval of the 17/2020 dated April 8, 2020 and April 13, Standard on General Meetings issued by the Members of the Company be and is hereby 2020 respectively, in relation to “Clarification Institute of Company Secretaries of India, in accorded to keep the Registers as prescribed on passing of ordinary and special resolutions respect of Director seeking re-appointment at under Section 88 of the Act and copies of by companies under the Companies Act, 2013 this AGM are also annexed.
Limited), Registrar and Transfer Agent of the through video conferencing (VC) or other audio through VC/OAVM, physical attendance of Company at C-101, 1st Floor, 247 Park, Lal visual means (OAVM)”, (collectively referred to Members has been dispensed with.
Transfer Agent of the Company is situated Members at a common venue. In compliance Attendance Slip and route map of AGM are not within Mumbai, from time to time.” with the MCA Circulars, the AGM of the annexed to this Notice.
Company is being held through VC/OAVM.

and to vote through remote e-voting. The said ii. To all Members in respect of shares held 8. Members may please note that SEBI vide Resolution/Authorization shall be sent to the in physical form after giving effect to valid its Circular No. SEBI/HO/MIRSD/MIRSD_ Scrutinizer by e-mail on its registered e-mail transmission or transposition requests RTAMB/P/CIR/2022/8 dated January 25, address to tcs.scrutinizer@gmail.com lodged with the Company as of the close of 2022 has mandated the listed companies with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in. business hours on Thursday, May 26, 2022. to issue securities in dematerialized form Institutional shareholders (i.e. other than only while processing service requests viz.
Authority Letter etc. by clicking on “Upload e-mail address, telephone/mobile numbers, exchange of securities certificate; endorsement;
Board Resolution/Authority Letter” displayed Permanent Account Number (PAN), mandates, sub-division/splitting of securities certificate;
under “e-Voting” tab in their login.
nominations, power of attorney, bank details consolidation of securities certificates/folios;
June 13, 2022 as under: pursuant to SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/ the folio is KYC Compliant.
MIRSD/MIRSD_RTAMB/P/CIR/2021/655

Members are advised to dematerialise the shares dematerialized form and to TCPL in case the application to the IEPF Authority in web Form held by them in physical form. Members can shares are held in physical form. No. IEPF-5 available on www.iepf.gov.in.
name appears as the first holder in the order report and FAQ of investor page on Company’s
10. Members holding shares in physical form, in of names as per the Register of Members of website https://on.tcs.com/IR-FAQ.
in one folio. Requests for consolidation of share placed at the AGM, are requested to write to the Company/Depositories, unless any Member certificates shall be processed in dematerialized Company on or before June 8, 2022 through has requested for a physical copy of the same.
DP in case the shares are held by them in dividends/shares have been transferred to determining the quorum under Section 103 of IEPF, may claim the same by making an online the Act.

17. Pursuant to the Finance Act, 2020, dividend Investors (FPIs)] can avail beneficial rates under 2020 in relation to “e-voting Facility income will be taxable in the hands of tax treaty between India and their country of Provided by Listed Entities”, the Members shareholders w.e.f. April 1, 2020 and the tax residence, subject to providing necessary are provided with the facility to cast their Company is required to deduct tax at source documents i.e. No Permanent Establishment and vote electronically, through the e-voting from dividend paid to shareholders at the Beneficial Ownership Declaration, Tax Residency services provided by NSDL, on all the prescribed rates. For the prescribed rates for Certificate, Form 10F, any other document resolutions set forth in this Notice.
various categories, please refer to the Finance which may be required to avail the tax treaty The instructions for e-voting are given Act, 2020 and the amendments thereof. benefits. For this purpose the shareholder may herein below.
(if shares are held in physical form). ends on Wednesday, June 8, 2022 11:59 p.m. IST on Tuesday, May 24, 2022.
avail the benefit of non-deduction of tax at
18. Instructions for e-voting and joining the AGM may cast their vote electronically.
source by e-mail to TCS-Exemptforms2223@ are as follows:
deducted at a higher rate prescribed under 20 of the Companies (Management and 8, 2022 or e-voting during the AGM.
Non-resident shareholders [including Foreign SEBI Circular no. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD/ are also eligible to vote on the remaining Institutional Investors (FIIs)/Foreign Portfolio CIR/P/2020/242 dated December 9, resolutions during the AGM.

iii. The Members who have cast their vote by if he/she is already registered with Details on Step 1 are mentioned below:
P N Parikh (Membership No. FCS 327) Member of the Company after sending of and failing him, Jigyasa Ved (Membership the Notice and holding shares as of the Pursuant to SEBI Circular no.
shares as of the cut-off date, may obtain to update their mobile number and e-mail the User ID and Password by sending a Step 2: Cast your vote electronically on ID with their DPs to access e-voting facility.
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in. However, NSDL e-voting system.

Login method for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode is given below:
shareholders If you are already registered, follow the below steps:
in dematerialized 1. Visit the e-Services website of NSDL. Open web browser and type the following URL: https://eservices.nsdl.com/ either on a mode with NSDL. Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2. Once the home page of e-Services is launched, click on the “Beneficial Owner” icon under “Login” which is available under “IDeAS” section.
3. A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID and Password. After successful authentication, you will be able to see e-voting services.
4. Click on “Access to e-voting” appearing on the left-hand side under e-voting services and you will be able to see e-voting page.
e-voting website for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
If you are not registered, follow the below steps:
a. Option to register is available at https://eservices.nsdl.com.
b. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp c. Please follow steps given in points 1-5.

Type of Login Method shareholders B. e-voting website of NSDL 1. Open web browser and type the following URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a personal computer or on a mobile phone.
2. Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
3. A new screen will open. You will need to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
available against Company name or e-voting service provider-NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
C. Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL mobile app “NSDL Speede” facility by scanning the QR code mentioned below for seamless voting experience.

Type of Login Method shareholders Shareholders 1. Existing users who have opted for Easi/Easiest, they can login through their User ID and Password. Option will be made available holding securities in to reach e-voting page without any further authentication. The URL for users to login to Easi/Easiest are https://web.cdslindia.com/ dematerialized mode myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.com and click on New System Myeasi.
2. After successful login of Easi/Easiest the user will be also able to see the e-voting menu. The menu will have links of e-voting service provider i.e. NSDL. Click on NSDL to cast your vote.
4. Alternatively, the user can directly access e-voting page by providing demat account number and PAN from a link in www.cdslindia.com home page. The system will authenticate the user by sending OTP on registered Mobile and e-mail as recorded in the demat Account.
After successful authentication, user will be provided links for the respective ESP i.e. NSDL where the e-voting is in progress.
Individual 1. You can also login using the login credentials of your demat account through your DP registered with NSDL/CDSL for e-voting facility.
(holding securities Depository site after successful authentication, wherein you can see e-voting feature.
mode) login through 3. Click on options available against Company name or e-voting service provider-NSDL and you will be redirected to e-voting website of their DPs NSDL for casting your vote during the remote e-voting period or joining virtual meeting and e-voting during the meeting.
Important note: Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forgot User details/Password option available at respective websites.
Helpdesk for individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode for any technical issues related to login through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.

II) Login method for e-voting and joining virtual meeting for shareholders other than individual shareholders holding securities in dematerialized mode and shareholders holding securities in physical mode.
How to Log-in to NSDL e-voting website?
1. Visit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by clicking the URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2. Once the home page of e-voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login” which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
3. A new screen will open. You will have to enter your User ID, Password/OTP and a verification code as shown on the screen.
4. Alternatively, if you are registered for NSDL eservices i.e. IDeAS, you can login at https://eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDeAS login. Once you login to NSDL eservices after using your login credentials, click on e-voting and you can proceed to Step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically.
5. Your User ID details are given below:
Manner of holding shares i.e. Your User ID is:
a) For Members who hold shares 8 Character DP ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID in demat account with NSDL.
b) For Members who hold shares 16 Digit Beneficiary ID in demat account with CDSL.
c) For Members holding shares in EVEN Number followed by Folio Number registered with the Company Physical Form.
For example if EVEN is 123456 and folio number is 001*** then User ID is 123456001***
6. Password details for shareholders other than Individual shareholders are given below:
a) If you are already registered for e-voting, then you can use your existing Password to login and cast your vote.
b) If you are using NSDL e-voting system for the first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial password’ which was communicated to you by NSDL. Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’, you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and the system will force you to change your Password.
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
(i) If your e-mail ID is registered in your demat account or with the Company, your ‘initial password’ is communicated to you on your e-mail ID. Trace the e-mail sent to you from NSDL in your mailbox from evoting@nsdl.com.Open the e-mail and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open the .pdf file.

The password to open the c) If you are still unable to get period and casting your vote during .pdf file is your 8 digit client the password by aforesaid two the General Meeting. For joining ID for NSDL account, last 8 options, you can send a request virtual meeting, you need to click on digits of client ID for CDSL at evoting@nsdl.co.in mentioning “VC/OAVM” link placed under “Join account or folio number for your demat account number/ Meeting”.
shares held in physical form. 3. Now you are ready for e-voting as the registered address.
The .pdf file contains your voting page opens.
options i.e. assent or dissent, verify or on the e-voting system of NSDL.
on “Submit” and also “Confirm” when address with the Company/ selecting on the check box.
prompted.
instructions mentioned in button.
“Vote cast successfully” will be this Notice.
7. If you are unable to retrieve or have home page of e-voting will open. confirmation by way of a SMS on your not received the “Initial password” or registered mobile number.
Details on Step 2 are given below:
have forgotten your password:
a) Click on “Forgot User Details/ votes cast by you by clicking on the NSDL e-voting system?
Password?” (If you are holding print option on the confirmation page.
“EVEN” in which you are holding on www.evoting.nsdl.com. modify your vote.

your password confidential. Login to by providing demat account number/ Members who do not have the User the e-voting website will be disabled folio number, client master or copy ID and Password for e-voting or have upon five unsuccessful attempts to of Consolidated Account statement, forgotten the User ID and Password key in the correct password. In such PAN (self-attested scanned copy of may retrieve the same by following an event, you will need to go through PAN card), AADHAAR (self-attested the remote e-voting instructions the “Forgot User Details/Password?” scanned copy of Aadhaar Card). If you mentioned in the Notice. Further Members can also use the OTP based or “Physical User Reset Password?” are an Individual shareholder holding login for logging into the e-voting option available on securities in dematerialized mode, you system of NSDL.
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com are requested to refer to the login to reset the Password. method explained above.
to e-voting, you may refer the e-voting on the day of the AGM are before the time scheduled for the Frequently Asked Questions (“FAQs”) mentioned in point number 18(A). AGM.
Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati following the steps mentioned above sanjeevy@nsdl.co.in.
Bapat Marg, Lower Parel, for login to NSDL e-voting system.

Client ID/Folio number, PAN, mobile the AGM and votes cast through to National Stock Exchange of India number at tcsagm.speakers@tcs. remote e-voting) and will submit a Limited and BSE Limited, where the com from June 3, 2022 (9:00 a.m. consolidated Scrutinizer’s Report shares of the Company are listed.
the number of speakers depending on Mumbai, April 11, 2022 laws.
the availability of time for the AGM.
2. The result declared along with the Registered Office:

Explanatory Statement 11, 2022, proposed the re-appointment of BSR, Item No. 5 Chartered Accountants (Firm Registration No.:
be held in the year 2027, at a remuneration as may 2021 (“Amendments”) introducing amendments accompanying Notice:
of material Related Party Transactions requiring required as per Section 102 of the Act.
SEBI Listing Regulations has been reduced with the conclusion of the twenty-seventh AGM.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set effect from April 1, 2022.

also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the “Tata Group”. The transactions that the Company has had with its related parties for the last three years is given below:

Year ended March 31, 2020 (` crore) Transactions Tata Sons Subsidiaries of the Subsidiaries of Tata Sons Private Associates/joint ventures of Tata Sons Total Private Limited Company Limited Private Limited and their Subsidiaries IT/ITE services rendered 31 1,069 488 1,780 3,368 Procurement of goods and services 1 222 923 404 1,550 Brand equity contribution 100 - - - 100 Non IT/ITE services availed - - 2 1 3 Lease rental 2 - 90 4 96 In view of the changes in the threshold for determining the related party transactions that require prior shareholder approval and considering the fact that the list of related parties will change dynamically with no action on the part of the Company and to facilitate seamless contracting and rendering/availing of product and services between the Company and “related parties”, the Company seeks the approval of the shareholders to approve entering into contracts/arrangements within the thresholds and conditions mentioned in the resolution. All the contracts/arrangements and the transactions with “related parties” are reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. Further, the transactions that require testing of arm’s length pricing are certified by our Statutory Auditors for being at arm’s length.

The details of transactions that require approval are given below:
2. Nature of relationship Holding Company – Tata Sons Private limited and its subsidiaries which are covered under Section 2(76) [including nature of its interest (financial or otherwise)] of the Act.
(c) reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services (d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc.
contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of
5.2 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum.

Sr. No. Description Particulars 9. Benefits of the proposed transaction The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their business.
10. Details of the valuation report or external party report All contracts with related party defined as per Section 2(76) of the Act are reviewed for arm’s length testing (if any) enclosed with the Notice internally and by Statutory Auditors.
or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:

2. Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or its subsidiaries Sr. No. Description Particulars 1. Name of the related party Tata Motors Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and/or its subsidiaries (please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries) 2. Nature of relationship Tata Motors Limited is an associate of Tata Sons Private Limited, Jaguar Land Rover Limited is a subsidiary [including nature of its interest (financial or otherwise)] of Tata Motors Limited and hence related party as per SEBI Listing Regulations.
contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of
2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum.
immediately preceding financial year, that is represented by 2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties the value of the proposed transaction.

Sr. No. Description Particulars 9. Benefits of the proposed transaction The Company, being a globally recognised provider of IT services participates in the digitisation initiatives of entities within Tata group and partners in respective entities’ growth and transformation journeys. During the course of rendering such services, the Company also leverages niche skills, capabilities and resources of entities within the group. These transactions aim at providing enhanced level of user experience to the end-consumers of Tata group and provide the entities within the group cutting edge technologies to sustain and grow their business.
B In case any financial indebtedness is incurred to make or give NA loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:

3. Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries) Sr. No. Description Particulars 1. Name of the related party Subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries) (please refer to Annexure B for list of subsidiaries) 2. Nature of relationship Subsidiaries of the Company which are covered under Section 2(76) of Companies Act, 2013 [including nature of its interest (financial or otherwise)] 3. Type of the proposed transaction (a) Rendering of IT/ITE Services including IT, Infrastructure, Cloud, IOT and Digital Engineering, Digital Transformation, Analytics, Cyber Security, and such related areas (b) Supply of hardware and software, (c) reimbursement of expenses relating to IT Infrastructure services (d) Procurement of goods, services, sponsorship, etc (e) Leasing of property (f) Any transfer of resources, services or obligations to meet its objectives/requirements 4. Nature, duration/tenure, material terms, monetary Transactions in the normal course of business with terms and conditions that are generally prevalent in the industry value and particulars of contract/arrangement segments that the Company operates in. Monetary value of transactions with a single related party subject to a maximum of 1.3 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company per annum through contracts/arrangements which are entered for a duration upto 5 years and a cumulative threshold of 2.6 percent of the consolidated turnover of the Company across all related parties per annum.
that is represented by the value of the proposed transaction.

Sr. No. Description Particulars 9. Benefits of the proposed transaction As per global network delivery model of TCS, the subsidiaries operating in respective countries enters into the contracts from customers and outsource the service delivery to the parent company TCS. Solutions framework along with trained domain experts of TCS ensure delivery of high quality and certainty to the end customers at respective countries.
to make or give loans, intercorporate deposits, advances or investment:

None of the Directors or Key Managerial Personnel Register and Index of Members, the Register and Industrial Estate, 20, Dr. E. Moses Road, Mahalaxmi, of the Company or its respective relatives, other Index of Debentureholders, if any, copies of all Mumbai-400 011.
where the Registered Office of the Company is consideration and approval by the Members. mentioned in the Resolution.
situated.
had approved the Register of Members and other a Special Resolution.
approval of the Members by way of a special Limited), the Registrar and Transfer Agent (“RTA”) concerned or interested, in the Resolution set out at resolution is required for the Company to have its of the Company at 6-10 Haji Moosa Patrawala Item No. 6 of the Notice.

Annexure A Details of Directors seeking re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting Particulars N Ganapathy Subramaniam DIN 07006215
Date of Birth and Age May 20, 1959 (62 years) Date of Appointment February 21, 2017 Qualifications Master’s Degree in Mathematics Expertise in specific functional areas Wide experience in Information Technology Directorships held in other companies Tata Elxsi Limited TCS Foundation Tata Communications Limited Tejas Networks Limited Memberships/Chairmanships of committees of other companies Tata Elxsi Limited • Nomination and Remuneration Committee • Executive Committee* • Risk Management Committee Number of Equity Shares held in the Company 197,760 Equity Shares *Chairman For other details such as number of meetings of the board attended during the year, remuneration drawn and relationship with other directors and key managerial personnel, in respect of the above Director, please refer to the corporate governance report which is a part of this report.

Annexure B List of subsidiaries of Tata Sons Private Limited as on March 31, 2022 (Excluding Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its Subsidiaries) Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.

Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.

Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.
Limited) 117 TitanX Engine Cooling Inc.
96 Tata Play Limited (formerly Tata Sky Limited) 118 TitanX Engine Cooling Kunshan Co. Ltd.

Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.
137 Tata Holdings Mocambique Limitada 156 AFCL Ghana Limited 138 Tata International Metals (Americas) Limited (formerly Tata Steel 157 AFCL Premium Services Ltd.

Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.
178 Delyver Retail Network Private Limited 201 Tata Communications (Netherlands) B.V.
180 Tata 1mg Technologies Private Limited 203 ITXC IP Holdings S.A.R.L.
181 Tata 1mg Healthcare Solutions Private Limited 204 Tata Communications (America) Inc.
184 Tata Fintech Private Limited 207 TATA COMMUNICATIONS (BELGIUM) SRL

Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.
208 Tata Communications (Italy) SRL 229 Tata Communications (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
209 Tata Communications (Portugal) Unipessoal LDA 230 Tata Communications Transformation Services South Africa (Pty) Ltd 210 Tata Communications (France) SAS 231 Tata Communications (Spain) S.L.
213 Tata Communications (Portugal) Instalacao E Manutencao De Redes LDA 234 Tata Communications (South Korea) Limited 214 Tata Communications (Australia) Pty Limited 235 Tata Communications Transformation Services (Hungary) Kft.
224 Tata Communications (Switzerland) GmbH 245 MuCoso B.V. (formerly Tata Communications MuCoso B.V.) 225 Tata Communications (Sweden) AB 246 NetFoundry Inc.

List of subsidiaries of Tata Motors Limited as on March 31, 2022 Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.
7 Brabo Robotics and Automation Limited 25 Limited Liability Company “Jaguar Land Rover” (Russia) 8 Tata Precision Industries Pte. Limited 26 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co. Ltd.
35 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC 16 Trilix S.r.l.
17 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited 37 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal-Veículos e Peças, Lda.

Sr. Name Sr. Name No. No.
40 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited 62 Jaguar Land Rover Servicios México, S.A. de C.V.
41 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC 63 Jaguar Land Rover México, S.A.P.I. de C.V.

List of subsidiaries of the Company (other than wholly owned subsidiaries) as Sr. Name on March 31, 2022 No.
85 Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto, Canada) No.
90 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited 5 Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Ltd.
91 Tata Technologies Pte. Limited 6 Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd.
93 Tata Manufacturing Technologies (Shanghai) Co. Limited 94 INCAT International Plc.
97 Tata Technologies Nordics AB 98 Tata Technologies Inc.
99 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Directors’ To the Members, The Directors present this Integrated Annual Report of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (the Company or TCS) Report along with the audited financial statements for the financial year ended March 31, 2022.
To support ‘Green initiative’, the Abridged Integrated Annual Report has been sent to the Members whose e-mail ids are not registered with the Company / Depositories.
The consolidated performance of the Company and its subsidiaries has been referred to wherever required.
2021-22 2020-21 2021-22 2020-21 (FY 2022) (FY 2021) (FY 2022) (FY 2021)
Revenue from operations 1,60,341 1,35,963 1,91,754 1,64,177 Other income 7,486 5,400 4,018 3,134 Total income 1,67,827 1,41,363 1,95,772 1,67,311 Expenses Operating expenditure 1,14,096 95,653 1,38,697 1,17,631 Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,522 3,053 4,604 4,065 Total expenses 1,17,618 98,706 1,43,301 1,21,696 Profit before finance costs, exceptional item and tax 50,209 42,657 52,471 45,615 Finance costs 486 537 784 637 Profit before exceptional item and tax 49,723 42,120 51,687 44,978 Exceptional item Provision towards legal claim - 1,218 - 1,218 Profit before tax 49,723 40,902 51,687 43,760 Tax expense 11,536 9,942 13,238 11,198 Profit for the year 38,187 30,960 38,449 32,562 Attributable to:
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Directors' Report | 82

2. COVID-19 of `7,768 crore during the year. The Directors (excluding transaction costs, other incidental have also recommended a final dividend of and related expenses) aggregated to The COVID-19 pandemic, continued to be a `22 per equity share, the final dividend on `38,010 crore, resulting in a payout of global challenge, creating disruption across the equity shares, if approved by the Members, 99.5 percent of the standalone profits of world. In the first three months of FY 2022, would involve a cash outflow of `8,050 crore. the Company.
the pandemic. of `4,500 per equity share for an aggregate shares at a price of `3,000 per equity share for consideration of `18,000 crore. The offer an aggregate consideration of `16,000 crore.
the TCS locations and smaller cities from where interim financial statements of the Company as interim financial statements of the Company as some of the employees were remote-working. at December 31, 2021, respectively. at September 30, 2020, respectively.
consideration was made on March 28, 2022 and and based on the Company’s performance, the January 6, 2021.

and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 6. Quality initiatives Controls for Cloud Services), ISO 27018:2019 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”) is available on (Protection of PII in Public Clouds as PII the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/ The Company continues to sustain its Processors) and ISO 27701:2019 (Privacy Dividend. commitment to the highest levels of quality, Information Management Systems).
and experience to its customers. iQMS™ is multi-level dashboards and differentiated
5. Company’s performance continually enhanced for new service offerings, governance of critical engagements.
of `1,64,177 crore. The profit after tax (“PAT”) TCS successfully completed the annual ISO in sustained high customer satisfaction levels in attributable to shareholders and non-controlling surveillance audit and has been recommended the periodic surveys conducted by the Company.
a growth of 14.8 percent over the PAT of Management Systems Standard satisfaction score of 84 percent compared to `33,388 crore* in FY 2021. (ISO 27701:2019). TCS’s enterprise ISO the industry average of 75 percent.
Security Management) and compliance to Organization and Best Security Practices in PAT of `31,918 crore* in FY 2021.
ISO 27017:2015 (Information Security IT-ITes/ BPM (Large).
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.

7. Subsidiary companies • The name of Postbank Systems AG ii. they have selected such accounting changed to TCS Technology Solutions AG policies and applied them consistently and The Company has 52 subsidiaries as on w.e.f. December 27, 2021. made judgments and estimates that are March 31, 2022. There are no associates or reasonable and prudent so as to give a true joint venture companies within the meaning • TCS e-Serve America, Inc. was liquidated and fair view of the state of affairs of the of Section 2(6) of the Companies Act, 2013 w.e.f. December 29, 2021. Company at the end of the financial year (“Act”). There has been no material change in and of the profit of the Company for that Pursuant to the provisions of Section 129(3) the nature of the business of the subsidiaries. period;
Limited w.e.f. May 24, 2021. is attached to the financial statements of the accounting records in accordance with the Company.
Further, pursuant to the provisions of Section Services Netherlands B.V., a 100 percent and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
with relevant documents and separate audited Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia on a going concern basis;
B.V. v. they have laid down internal financial https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations.
8. Directors’ responsibility statement a 100 percent subsidiary of the Company, adequate and operating effectively;
in Bulgaria on August 31, 2021. ensure compliance with the provisions of all and ability, confirm that:
applicable laws and that such systems are
• TCS Iberoamerica SA, a 100 percent i. in the preparation of the annual accounts, adequate and operating effectively.
controls and compliance systems established Guatemala, S.A. in Guatemala on departures;
and maintained by the Company, the work September 1, 2021.

performed by the internal, statutory and submitted declarations that each of them meet with effect from November 1, 2021.
including the audit of internal financial controls Section 149(6) of the Act along with Rules Institute of Company Secretaries of India and over financial reporting by the statutory auditors framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
and the reviews performed by management and the SEBI Listing Regulations. There has been He has degrees in Commerce and General Law.
that the Company’s internal financial controls secretarial functions.
shareholders, approved the re-appointment and Company Secretary and Compliance Officer, of Rajesh Gopinathan (DIN 06365813) as the Samir Seksaria took over as the Chief Financial respectively.
May 19, 2024, as per the retirement age policy graduate from Narsee Monjee College, Mumbai Chief Financial Officer and Pradeep Manohar for the Directors of the Company.
N Ganapathy Subramaniam (DIN 07006215) Accountants of India. Managerial Personnel of the Company as on retires by rotation and being eligible, offers March 31, 2022.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 149 as Company Secretary and Compliance Officer, Report, which is a part of this report.

11. Board evaluation performance of individual directors on the 13. Corporate social responsibility (CSR) basis of criteria such as the contribution of the The Board of Directors has carried out an individual director to the board and committee TCS’ CSR initiatives and activities are aligned to annual evaluation of its own performance, board meetings like preparedness on the issues to the requirements of Section 135 of the Act.
The performance of the board was evaluated of the independent directors and meeting of format prescribed in the Companies (Corporate by the Board after seeking inputs from all the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
The performance of the committees was is available on the Company’s website at independent director being evaluated.
Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by control and their adequacy are included in the at https://on.tcs.com/ApptDirectors.
the Securities and Exchange Board of India Management Discussion and Analysis, which is a on January 5, 2017. In a separate meeting of The policy on remuneration and other matters part of this report.
executive directors and non-executive directors. https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy. Audit Committee are included in the Corporate Governance Report, which is a part of this report.

16. Auditors to frame, implement and monitor the risk 21. Transactions with related parties management plan for the Company.
The Board has recommended the risks and controls. The major risks identified by applicable to the Company for FY 2022 and re-appointment of B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered the businesses and functions are systematically hence does not form part of this report.
twenty-seventh Annual General Meeting been covered in the Management Discussion shareholders on material related party scheduled to be held in the year 2022 till and Analysis, which forms part of this report. transactions is being placed at the AGM.
17. Auditor’s report and Secretarial audit report 22 of SEBI Listing Regulations, to report return-21-22.
secretarial auditor’s report do not contain any 23. Particulars of employees https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP.
(Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial
18. Risk management The particulars of loans, guarantees and Personnel) Rules, 2014:
director to the median remuneration of the financial statements.

employees of the Company and percentage increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive ## Appointed as Chief Financial Officer Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary in the financial year: w.e.f. May 1, 2021.
### Relinquished the office of Chief Name Ratio to median % increase in Financial Officer w.e.f. April 30, 2021.
Compliance Officer w.e.f. November 1, Non-executive Directors:
2021.
O P Bhatt 38.49 8.70 Secretary and Compliance Officer w.e.f.
Keki Mistry 38.49 25.00 remuneration is not comparable and Don Callahan 34.64 12.50 hence, not stated.
Executive Directors:
Company and hence not stated. after accounting for promotions and other # In line with the internal guidelines of the Company, no payment is made towards commission to the event based compensation revisions.
Non-Executive Directors of the Company, who are in full time employment with any other Tata Employees outside India received a wage Company and hence not stated. increase varying from 1.5 to 6 percent.

The increase in remuneration is in line 24. Integrated Report environmental, social and governance initiatives with the market trends in the respective of the Company.
performance. the Company’s long term perspective. The that such systems are adequate and operating Report also touches upon aspects such as effectively.
organisation’s strategy, governance framework, for the year was 27.38 percent.
f. The statement containing names of top was outstanding as on the date of the balance ten employees in terms of remuneration 25. Disclosure requirements sheet.
Rules, 2014, is provided in a separate Business Responsibility and Sustainability Report Conservation of energy annexure forming part of this report. (“BRSR”) form part of the Director’s Report.
indicates the Company’s performance against 136 of the Act, the said annexure is open Sustainability).
enable the Members to have an insight into to the Company Secretary.

Through the reporting year, initiatives were The Company has become carbon neutral Activities that strengthened both brands related aligned towards achieving these targets. Having across Scope 1 and Scope 2 for its operations in to R&D are specified here. TCS Research as a already switched over to LED lights across Asia Pacific (APAC), Europe and North America brand, highlights the Company’s ability to invent all offices in 2020, this year the focus was on (NA) for this reporting year. These efforts with impact, and explore futuristic ideas with cooling system and UPS efficiencies. Offices helped achieve a year-on-year reduction in the wider academic ecosystem. The TCS PaceTM with old/inefficient air conditioners were absolute carbon footprint reduction (across brand stands for its innovation capability, by upgraded to energy efficient and energy star Scope 1 and Scope 2) across TCS’ global which intellectual content is made tangible and rated cooling systems. Initiatives to optimize operations by 25 percent. The electricity use experiential to customers.
modular technologies like modular UPS, cold regions. quantum computing and generative design aisle containment, real time monitoring of for materials, manufacturing and life sciences.
The Company continued to augment the roof its carbon target to reduce its absolute Development and Sustainability. Research on top solar photo voltaic installations this year Scope 1 + Scope 2 carbon footprint by 70 other strategic initiatives continued.
total electricity use. an amalgamation of IP-based solutions for decade as a research-focused organization.

manufacturing has also been developed innovation lab at the Letterkenny Global In line with the Company’s belief of building using Microsoft Azure Cloud capabilities. Delivery Centre, Ireland; Digital Garage greater futures through innovation and TCS MasterCraftTM is now on the Microsoft Innovation Centre at Sydney; and the All- collective knowledge, R&I continued to Azure Marketplace. TCS Clever EnergyTM, TCS women Innovation Lab at Riyadh. TCS’ Agile combine know-how and innovation mindset EnvirozoneTM were launched on Microsoft’s Innovation Cloud (AIC) was adopted by multiple across the organization by regularly organizing Azure IoT platform to help organizations gain customers this year.
seven geographies; many Innovation Days were through experiential initiatives. The Company’s circularity, and development related projects.
held with customers across industries.
Pace Ports, spaces that connect customers to all Several other initiatives were undertaken:
are active across geographies. The Company using digital technologies, the winners of which largest computer programming competition launched a Pace PortTM in Amsterdam formally showcased their idea at the TCS Innovation with 1,36,054 participants from 34 countries.
start-ups and technology providers to Singapore to Malaysia and Philippines. It focused than 240 publications presented in co-innovate with European customers with a on ‘Reimagining Education.’ Sustainathon - The top-tier conferences or published in journals.
the globe to help customers leverage SC42 on Software and Systems Engineering launched in FY 2022.

and 2,287 granted cumulatively by the Company. TCS won CII’s Industrial Expenditure incurred in the R&D centers and innovation centers of TCS Intellectual Property Awards 2021 for the Best Patents Portfolio in the Large during FY 2022 and FY 2021 are given below:
e. Total R&D and innovation 2,178 1,845 2,242 1,917 longer-term sustainability goals.
f. R&D and innovation 1.4% 1.4% 1.2% 1.2% Expenditure on R&D:
TCS research and innovation centres are located in India and other parts of total turnover of the world. These research centres in India, as certified by Department *Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Foreign exchange earnings and outgo Bengaluru, Delhi- NCR, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Mumbai.
Export revenue constituted 94.0 percent of the total standalone revenue in FY 2022 (94.0 percent in FY 2021).

28. Acknowledgements The Directors thank the Company’s employees, customers, vendors, investors and academic partners for their continuous support. The Directors also thank the Government of India, Governments of various states in India, Governments of various countries and concerned Government departments and agencies for their co-operation.
deeply grateful and have immense respect for every person who risked his life and safety to fight this pandemic.
The Directors appreciate and value the contribution made by every member of the TCS family.

Annexure I Annual Report on CSR Activities 1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company The Company believes that all are born with equal potential but not equal opportunity. TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities, building self-reliance through purpose and technology while ensuring the values of fairness, equity and respect for human rights. The Company remains steadfast in its mission to connect people to opportunities in the digital economy while building equitable, inclusive pathways for all – especially women, youth and marginalized groups.
are education, skilling, employment and entrepreneurship with a focus on bridging the opportunity gap for people and communities. The Company invests in basic health and wellness, water sanitation and hygiene, conservation and disaster relief efforts to support the basic needs of communities across the globe.
into the design of every program. In India this is aligned to its support of the Government of India’s Affirmative Action Policy and the Tata Group’s Affirmative Action Program.
With a view to grow the capacity of grassroot organizations and the knowledge base of community issues, TCS also invests in strategic partnerships, research and insights and in providing pro-bono technology consulting.
using its technology capabilities; engage its large employee base to volunteer their time, skills and expertise as last-mile connectors and make impact investments in large scale, sustainable, multi-year programs that empower communities.
The projects undertaken are within the broad framework of Schedule VII to the Act. Details of the CSR policy and projects or programs undertaken by the Company are available on links given below:

2. Composition of the CSR committee:
3. Provide the web-link where Composition of CSR committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company Composition of the CSR committee shared above and is available on the Company’s website at https://www.tcs.com/corporate-governance.
4. Provide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried out in pursuance of sub-rule (3) of rule 8 of the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014, if applicable (attach the report).
the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014 and has initiated impact assessment of one CSR project (Tata Translational Cancer Research Center) through an independent agency. The report is available on the Company’s website at https://on.tcs.com/IAR.
Sr. No. Financial Year Amount available for set off from preceding financial years Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any 1 2020-21 11 NIL

6. Average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Act: `35,806 crore 7. (a) Two percent of average net profit of the Company as per Section 135(5) of the Act: `716 crore (b) Surplus arising out of the CSR projects or programmes or activities of the previous financial years : NIL (c) Amount required to be set off for the financial year, if any : NIL (d) Total CSR obligation for the financial year (7a+7b-7c) : `716 crore
8. (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Amount Date of transfer Name of the Fund Amount Date of transfer 727 NIL - - NIL -

(b) Details of CSR amount spent against ongoing projects for the financial year:
People India TOTAL 7
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

(c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
8 Community transformation projects (ii) (iii) Yes PAN India -* Yes - -
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) Sr. Name of the Project Item from the Local area Location of the project Amount Mode of Mode of implementation - Through No. list of activities (Yes/ No) spent for implementation implementing agency in Schedule VII State / Union Territories District the project - Direct Name CSR registration to the Act (` crore) (Yes/No) number 9 goIT - Student Digital Innovation (ii) Yes Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jammu Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, Anantapur, Kadapa, Ahmedabad, -* Yes - - Program & Kashmir, Karnataka, Kerala, Dahod, Bharuch, Surat, Jammu, Tumkur, Chikkaballapur, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Kolar, Bangalore, Mandya , Shivamogga, Ramanagara West Bengal, Ladakh ,Dakshina Kannada, Raichur, Ernakulum, Wayanad, Palakkad, Kochi, Thane, Amravati, Nagpur, Solapur, Wardha, Akola, Yavatmal, Sangli, Pune, Osmanabad, Chandrapur, Anugul, Balasore, Bargarh, Bolangir, Boudh, Cuttack, Deogarh, Dhenkanal, Gajapati, Ganjam, Jajapur, Jharsuguda, Kalahandi, Kendrapada, Keunjhar, Khordha, Koraput, Malkangiri, Mayurbhanj, Nabarangpur, Nayagarh, Nuapada, Phulbani, Puri, Rayagada, Sambalpur, Sonepur, Sundargarh, Kancheepuram, Kolkata,Purulia, Leh 10 Archaeometallurgical insights on (v) Yes Tamil Nadu Keeladi, Kodumanal, Adichanallur -* No National Institute CSR00007662 ancient excavations of Advanced Studies 11 IMF - Computational Thining (ii) Yes Andhra Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Chittoor, East Godavari, Guntur, Krishna, Kurnool, Nellore, -* Yes - - Program Ladakh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Prakasam, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, West Godavari, Nadu, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Anantapur, Kadapa, Visakhapatnam, Jammu, Poonch, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Kupwara, Leh, Thane, Amravati, Nagpur, Ahmadnagar, Kerala Solapur, Wardha, Raigarh, Akola, Yavatmal, Sangli, Amritsar, Chennai, Almora, Dehradun, Bankura, Mysore, Tumkur, Chikkamagalore, Chikmagaluru, Chikkaballapur, Kolar, Bangalore, Mandya, Ramnagar, Shivamogga, Kolar, Ramanagara, Dakshina Kannada, Neemuch, North Goa, South Goa, Ernakulum, Kottayam, Alappuzha 12 Infrastructure support to Hospital (i) Yes Maharashtra Mumbai -* No Society for CSR00003225 Rehabilitation of Crippled Children
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) Sr. Name of the Project Item from the Local area Location of the project Amount Mode of Mode of implementation - Through No. list of activities (Yes/ No) spent for implementation implementing agency in Schedule VII State / Union Territories District the project - Direct Name CSR registration to the Act (` crore) (Yes/No) number 13 Scholarship program (ii) Yes Madhya Chhindwara -* No NIIT CSR00000621 Pradesh Foundation 14 Digital Nerve Centre (i) Yes PAN India -* Yes - - TOTAL 713
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

9. (a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Name of the Fund Amount Date of transfer 1 - NIL - - NIL - -
(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
and Nagpur in PPP mode TOTAL 7
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Annexure II Form No. MR-3 Secretarial Audit Report for the financial year ended March 31, 2022 [Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] To, Company has during the audit period covering the to the extent of Foreign Direct Investment, The Members, financial year ended on March 31, 2022, generally Overseas Direct Investment and External Tata Consultancy Services Limited complied with the statutory provisions listed Commercial Borrowings;
compliance of applicable statutory provisions and to the extent, in the manner and subject to the prescribed under the Securities and Exchange the adherence to good corporate practices by Tata reporting made hereinafter: Board of India Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
in a manner that provided us a reasonable basis forms and returns filed and other records made India (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory available to us and maintained by the Company Takeovers) Regulations, 2011;
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and (i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the 2015;
other records maintained by the Company, to the rules made thereunder;
the conduct of secretarial audit, the explanations (‘SCRA’) and the rules made thereunder; Requirements) Regulations, 2018 and and clarifications given to us and the representations amendments from time to time;

Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) a) Information Technology Act, 2000 and the We further report that:
Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the rules made thereunder;
Director was carried out in compliance with the (f) The Securities and Exchange Board of India f) The Trade Marks Act, 1999 provisions of the Act.
applicable clauses of the following: schedule the Board Meetings, agenda and detailed Companies Act and dealing with client;
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, meaningful participation at the meeting.
Board of India (Delisting of Equity Shares) Company with National Stock Exchange of As per the minutes, decisions at the Board Meetings Regulations, 2021; (Not applicable to the India Limited and BSE Limited read with the were taken unanimously.
We further report that there are adequate systems Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
complied with the provisions of the Act, Rules, and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, (vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the Regulations, Guidelines, standards etc. mentioned regulations and guidelines etc.
Company namely:- above.

We further report that during the audit period the ‘Annexure A’ 4. Where ever required, we have obtained following events occurred which had bearing on the the Management Representation about the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the above referred To, Compliance of laws, rules and regulations and laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, standards etc. The Members happening of events etc.
4,00,00,000 (four crores) fully paid-up equity Our report of even date is to be read along with this and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, shares of face value of `1 (Rupee One) each (“Equity letter. standards is the responsibility of management.
Shares”), on a proportionate basis, through the Our examination was limited to the verification Tender Offer route through the Stock Exchange 1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the of procedure on test basis.
with which the management has conducted the For Parikh & Associates 2. We have followed the audit practices and affairs of the Company.
which is annexed as Annexure A and Forms an integral appropriateness of financial records and Books part of this report. of Accounts of the Company.

Management Overview of the Industry globally, with a market share of 2.3%, and has Discussion and outperformed the market, growing significantly Analysis The global economy recovered strongly in higher than market growth over the last decade.
management team, focused investments in grew nearly 5% to reach $211 billion.
a highly fragmented one, with even the largest expanding participation in customers’ growth and provider having a mid-single digit market share. transformation spends.
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Management Discussion and Analysis | 107

TCS’ Business Communications, Media and Technology (CMT), to the needs of a broader set of stakeholders in Manufacturing, Life Sciences and Healthcare and the client organization, and is helping drive a steady An Overview Others. The last category includes Energy, increase in the scope and scale of services consumed TCS is an IT services, consulting and business Resources and Utilities, Public Services and others. year after year, and expand TCS’ share of wallet, as solutions organization partnering many of the evidenced by the client metrics.
application services, digital transformation services, by making the right investments and mitigating a proven track record in delivering longer term cloud services, engineering services, cognitive risks while discharging its social and environmental stakeholder value.
business operations, and products and platforms – responsibilities.
Independent Agile™ delivery. its investments in research and innovation, its intellectual property, and alliances and partnerships.
of the customer’s business and technology landscape Latin America, the United Kingdom, Continental in participating in its customers’ G&T journeys.
to improve the client’s topline and help drive Over the last 3 years, TCS has been investing in a Africa.

TCS teams to engage with clients in ideation, rapid launched in FY 2021, offer customers the full relationship stage – to the existing three dimensions prototyping and agile development of innovative range of transformational and operational services of TCS’ organization structure: geography, industry ideas. These hubs also house researchers and on the respective hyperscaler stacks, spanning vertical and service line.
customers in major markets will continue to be company inaugurated the Pace Port at Amsterdam edge.
These units have been steadily investing in training, governance layer on top has been realigned. Instead February 2022.
TCS continued to invest in intellectual property, and intellectual property on their respective customers have now been segmented by relationship launching new variants within the ignio™ suite and hyperscaler stacks. In FY 2022, TCS added TCS stage, and vested with three business groups:
each of the industry verticals, the relevant business list of its software products and solutions available on delivery;
relationships which are in the high growth three hyperscaler platforms covering EU taxonomy, Amsterdam, New York and Tokyo.
phase;
Cal-C (Carbon Calculator). New Organization Structure  Business Transformation Group to manage large and mature relationships.
Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud Platform, this by adding a fourth dimension – i.e. customer local country-based organizations.

The sharper customer focus enabled by the new structure and the resultant curated customer experiences are expected to enhance customer intimacy, facilitate cross- selling and up-selling, expand share of wallet and prepare the company for the journey ahead.
Opportunity / Threat TCS Approach Outcomes Greater interest in using technology to drive • Focused on developing contextual knowledge and • Expansion of addressable market.
business growth applying that for inside-out transformations.
• Growing share of G&T business adding to growth.
• Continued investments in research and innovation,
• Higher quality revenue, lending margin resilience.
TCS Pace Ports, and intellectual property.
• More deeply embedded in the clients’ business.
together TCS’ differentiated capabilities from across • Engaging with a broader set of buyers in the client the organization to stitch together comprehensive organization.
solutions.
• Higher visibility within C-Suites.
• Proactive pitching of solutions to customers’ most pressing business problems.
• New brand tagline ‘Building on Belief’ to strengthen positioning as a growth and transformation partner.
Accelerated adoption of public cloud • Launched dedicated business units with end to end • Strong growth in cloud transformation revenues.
capabilities on each of the hyperscaler platforms.
• Top tier partner to each of the hyperscalers.
• Preferred partner to clients seeking to use cloud certifications, credentials, IP and accelerators.
native capabilities to power their growth and
• Articulated the multi-horizon cloud transformation transformation.
framework.
• Made available TCS products and solutions on public clouds.

Opportunity / Threat TCS Approach Outcomes Greater acceptance of as-a-Service platforms • Strengthened alliances and launched new offerings • Stronger win-win partnerships.
around the popular and new SaaS products.
• Expansion of addressable market.
• Helped ISV* clients upgrade their products to launch
• Strong growth in SaaS sales.
new SaaS versions.
• Partnering with product manufacturers to help revenue visibility.
launch innovative as-a-Service offerings using TCS Bring Things to Life IoT framework.
TCS IP:
• Launched SaaS versions of in-house product portfolio; made available on hyperscaler platforms.
• Used IP portfolio to launch new platforms that bundle IP and shared services on the cloud.
Operations optimization to fund transformation • Launched the Machine First™ Delivery Model, • Operations transformation order book of over $1Bn embedding automation deep within the enterprise to from Cognix since its launch.
drive greater efficiencies.
• Reputation as a partner who helps structure self-
• Launched the TCS Cognix™ hyper-automation funding business transformation programs.
suite with pre-built solutions for business and IT operations transformation.
Pandemic-forced remote working • Launched the Secure Borderless Workspaces™ • Ensured business continuity on mission-critical operating model. activities.
• Announced Vision 25x25, heralding a new hybrid • Faster ramp-up of new projects.
working model for the longer term.
• More opportunities for employees, based on skills
• Implemented ‘talent clouds’, staffing projects using rather than their location.
AI to match skills, regardless of location.
• More flexible working arrangement, that is more gender inclusive.

Talent Management • TCS Vaccination League: A pioneering and one- future business growth. Its technology-enabled, of-a-kind initiative to vaccinate employees and data-driven, 100% virtual hiring model has enabled TCS aims to attract, develop, motivate and retain their families across 160 locations in India, in quicker decision making, enhanced agility and scaled diverse talent, that is critical for its continued success. metros as well as Tier 2/3 cities. well globally, while retaining the local nuances The company’s talent management strategy seeks required for building a diverse workforce.
of 103,546 employees globally, taking the total and access to covid care centers set up at TCS of the largest job creators in IT services in several employee base to 592,195, with 153 nationalities. facilities in 13 cities. TCS also introduced Emergency major markets, for both freshers and lateral hires.
The company crossed a key diversity milestone, with Medical Assistance, an interest free loan to support In the United States, TCS has hired nearly 32,000 women in the workforce exceeding 200,000 during hospitalization needs during COVID-19. Over employees over the last five years.
• SPEED Feedforward: A pioneering initiative that The TCS Vaccination League benefited 1.2 million institutes.
takes TCS’ continuous feedback performance individuals and resulted in over 87% of employees appraisal system to the next level by providing in India getting fully vaccinated and 95% receiving at Key Achievements:
real time, objective performance data least one dose.
over 14,000 applications. required by the business at the right time to promote skill set.

• Highly successful internal referral program TCS recognizes that a diverse and inclusive • Allies of Diversity - A program where senior accounted for 30% of total joiners in FY 2022. workforce is necessary to drive innovation, foster leadership from client organizations are invited creativity, and guide business strategies. This year to share diversity best practices. 24 chapters • TCS CodeVita™ – Season 10 of TCS’ flagship TCS reached a significant milestone to become one across 52 different client organizations engaging global coding contest saw 305K+ registrations of the few organizations in the world employing 58 senior leaders have been completed.
• TCS Academic Interface Program – Engaged development program for women after which completed, bringing together 212 internal 196,474 students (20,687 outside India) from participants receive project-based mentorship coaches.
• Education and Sensitization: TCS has mandatory workshops and faculty development programs. different businesses, generations, and cultures.
understand the key concepts of DEI and FY 2022. benefiting 1,290 women leaders.
belonging, that 481,000 employees have completed.
a well-defined and progressive Diversity, Equity understanding of inner diversity and engage TCS is focused on building and developing enduring and Inclusion (DEI) policy embracing all diversity with the collective community. 8,682 managers capabilities for a future-ready workforce.
across 37 nationalities have undergone this religion, race/caste, colour, age, ancestry, nationality, Key initiatives include:
program.
provides insights on strategic planning and received increased compensation.
action to increase DEI maturity.

• Contextual Masters (CMs): With a learning Purpose-driven Workforce Policies and career goals in Xcelerate, and mechanisms are intensity 15% higher than average, CMs are being developed to help them realize their ambitions.
instrumental in creating a vibrant, equitable and iConnect - Collaborative tool designed to help has over 50,000 CMs, up 169% over the year.
a Global Guideline on Remote Working to enable on career paths, and have face to face dialogues with 24% women.
smooth transition into a hybrid work model aligned about their role and career.
with Vision 25x25.
training was further intensified with 47 digital were created in the areas of health and safety, mentors. Over 10,000 leaders are part of the 360O technology certifications, daily webinars, weekly compensation and benefits, mobility, leave, inclusive feedback process.
to share their career aspirations and preferences workforce needs.
Key Metrics: of mobility, followed by an assessment of their Other policies of interest like the TCS Global Policy leadership attributes.
mobility. This embodies the company’s philosophy stakeholders.
• One hands-on learning exercise completed TCS has multiple initiatives to help employees grow organizational loyalty.
every 8 seconds. in their careers:

market for software engineers with graduate or Key Achievements: • Purpose4life: Forum for volunteering for post-graduate degrees in engineering and with community projects in the areas of education, relevant technical skills. • Radio Maitree: a unique, interactive radio health and environment; over 22,000 program to enhance employee connect saw volunteers contributed to 617,000 volunteering Compensation levels are merit based, determined participation by over 23,000 employees globally. hours in community initiatives that supported by qualification, experience levels, special skills if over 353,000 beneficiaries.
families who plan activities that help create a country that TCS operates in. The merit based, Values, Build My Career and Lifelong Learning.
democratized, transparent talent framework –
• Leadership Townhalls cumulatively resulted balance.
reward. The company regularly benchmarks its avenues to build an emotionally strong and organizational belonging.
compensation plans and benefits with the market to mentally resilient workforce.
ensure competitiveness.
formal listening forum. Our Annual Employee side for termination6.
ASI of 80.6 and AEI of 81.0 - the highest over TCS’ Engagement with Purpose model reimagines • Knome, KnowMax, GEMS: Platforms for social the last 14 years.
• Fit4life: Builds a fraternity of health and fitness and empowering them have made it an industry of community.
fitness’ around 42,000 active users contributed IT services attrition was 17.4% on an LTM basis, the 6 GRI 402-1 a total of 19 million kms on the portal. lowest among its peers.

FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW The discussions in this section relate to the consolidated, Rupee-denominated financial results pertaining to the year that ended March 31, 2022. The financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as ‘TCS’ or ‘the Company’) are prepared in accordance with the Indian Accounting Standards (referred to as ‘Ind AS’) prescribed under section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013, read with the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, as amended from time to
time. Significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The following table gives an overview of the consolidated financial results of the company:
On a reported basis, TCS’ revenue grew 16.8% in FY 2022, compared to 4.6% in the prior year, due to accelerated spending on digital transformation initiatives, cloud adoption and increased outsourcing.
Average currency exchange rates during FY 2022 for the three major currencies are given below:
` ` USD 53.0 74.61 74.06 0.7
GBP 13.6 101.50 97.32 4.3 EUR 11.8 86.36 86.69 (0.4)

Movements in currency exchange rates through the year resulted in a positive impact of 1.4% on the reported revenue. The constant currency revenue growth for the year, which is the reported revenue growth stripped of the currency impact, was 15.4%.
Segmental Performance The revenue break-up by Industry Vertical and Geography is provided below:

Segment revenues, year on year growth, a brief commentary and segment margins are provided below:
Insurance (65,634) products and services, fintech adoption. (28.5)
• Sustainability and climate change initiatives.
management, consent order management and strategic framework for risk and finance management.
• Technology: Cloud adoption, cyber security, IT estate rationalization, core platform simplification, agile and DevOps adoption.
• Data and analytics, cloud enablement, product and platform engineering.
• M&A, divestitures, business simplification.
• Operating model resilience, cost optimization.

Industry Vertical Segment Revenue YoY Key Spending Areas Segment Margin FY 2022 Revenue FY 2022 (FY 2021) Growth (FY 2021) ` crore % % Retail and Consumer Business 30,715 20.0 • Seamless and Unified Customer experience across channels, hyper 27.8 (25,589) personalization, last-mile delivery, marketplace, payments. (27.9)
• Supply chain transformation for speed and visibility.
• Employee experience, automation, application and data modernization, cloud migration, cost optimization.
• Plant safety, remote asset management, energy efficiency and decarbonization.
• Supply chain resilience, process resilience.
• Utilities invested in connected ecosystems, smart grids and front-end digital investments to enhance customer experience.
transformation, intelligent automation, data democratization, analytics and insights, cyber security.
• IT operating model transformation, Agile & DevOps, vendor consolidation.

Business Outlook  Sustainability: New products and services continue to challenge businesses in every possible aligned to the sustainability / SDG agenda, way amplifying existing risks. Not only are the nature Global growth is expected to moderate from 6.1% in new systems to measure, track and reduce of risks evolving, but the speed of risk is increasing 2021 to 3.6 percent in 20227, driven by withdrawal GHG emissions across the value chain with faster time to impact. Geo-political situations of monetary accommodation in major economies, towards Net Zero goals. like the Russia Ukraine war have further forced continued supply side shortages and economic global businesses to revisit their operations, delivery, damage from the war in Ukraine. While enterprise  Others: Employee experience; B2B2C / supply chains and contractual aspects. Operating in spending on technology is expected to go up, growth D2C; M&A; supply chain modernization an uncertain and ever-changing environment, TCS’ is expected to moderate year on year at an industry for better visibility, agility and resilience; global operations bring in considerable complexities level, leaving space for outperformance through purpose-driven, collaborative ecosystems and TCS’ robust enterprise risk management market share gains and strong deal wins. Key themes to launch new offerings and new business framework aids in ensuring the strategic expected to drive client spending, and continued models; smart manufacturing with greater objectives are achieved. This framework enables business momentum for the company in FY 2023, automation, digital twins and predictive risk identification, risk assessment, risk response include: maintenance; industry transformation. planning and actions, risk monitoring and overall risk governance. Key Risk Indicators are used to identify  G&T Themes:  Technology: Cloud migration; digital workplace; and assess risks. The digital platform for integrated data estate and application modernization; cyber risk management provides an enterprise-wide view  Customer Experience: Continued focus security; ERP modernization; low-code, no-code of risks covering strategic, operational, compliance, on strengthening and deepening customer adoption; 5G/Edge adoption. financial and catastrophic risks, providing a holistic relationships through digital channels, approach towards informed decision making. Risks reimagination of omnichannel journeys,  Operations: AI/ML-led transformation of IT / are assessed and managed at various levels with a immersive device-agnostic experiences business operations for greater resilience and top-down and bottom-up approach covering the using XR / Metaverse, and hyper- leaner operating models; managed services enterprise, the business units, the geographies, the personalization. models.
functions, the customer relationships and projects.

Listed below are some of the key risks, anticipated impact on the company and mitigation strategies.
Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Volatile global The company derives a material portion of its revenues • Broad-based business mix, well diversified across geographies and industry verticals.
economic scenario to their business outlook. • Monitor changing geopolitical scenarios, the potential business implications and strengthen internal controls to further safeguard against secondary risks.
wars may adversely affect that outlook resulting in in the customer organization, covering discretionary as well as non-discretionary reduced spending which could restrict revenue growth spends, and relevant at every point in the business cycle.
opportunities.
could impact client spending as well as increase TCS’ and workplace transformation using location independent agile, deep contextual cost of doing business. knowledge and data-driven analytics and dashboards.
delivery, business continuity, cybersecurity, sanctions demand for flexible products and platforms based solution offerings and subscription- compliance and human rights risks in geo-politically based services to gain market share and new clients and markets.
sensitive zones.
• More long-term contracting models.
• Leverage business ecosystem through collaboration with partners, start-ups and alliances to participate in transformation initiatives of customers.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Disruption and While presently the severity of the disease due • Encourage new employees to get vaccinated as per the country level internal uncertainty in to COVID-19 has reduced because of increased vaccination policies, government guidelines and including facilitating booster doses as business due to vaccination, as immunity may wane over a period of available.
This may have an impact on the health and safety, counseling services (TCS Cares), medical hotline to doctors, fitness sessions for emotional wellbeing and mobility of TCS’ workforce, employees and Covid Care Centres in TCS premises.
which in turn may impact service delivery and revenues.
result in business disruption and necessitate higher work model using Secure Borderless WorkSpaces (SBWSTM) for remote working, spends for ensuring business resiliency. There could be while following safe protocols like masks and social distancing in offices.
employees who have been working remotely from their • Leverage emerging technology based tools to anticipate and be resilient for any hometowns. upcoming COVID-19 waves / variants.
• The COVID-19 Apex committee at Enterprise level continues to monitor the residual risks and coordinate global efforts required, based on frequent risk assessments.
• Regular communication with customers about measures taken to maintain business services and reporting of their operations status.
• Regular coordination with key suppliers for expeditious provisioning of assets critical for business services.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation • SOP for operating TCS Offices including implementing Safe Operating Zones for associates requiring to work from office, thermal screening, frequent sanitization of premises, social distancing layout etc. AI-based Workplace resilience tool implemented in Delivery Centres to aid in risk profiling and contact tracing.
• Revised Business Continuity plans which are benchmarked against ISO 22301 in place, for hybrid mode of working and to address any future waves of the pandemic.
• Remote working practices for managers and employees integrated into the Location Independent Agile delivery method, to ensure effectiveness and productivity.
• Monitor changes in regulations related to the impact due to pandemic and align internal policies accordingly.
huge demand for retain talent is critical to business success. Increase linkage of career growth to learning, and preference to internal talent for new talent globally and in attrition can impact TCS’ ability to deliver existing leadership positions, all incentivize planning of longer-term careers in TCS.
attrition business engagements and grow.
• Focused tactical initiatives to retain talent using proactive as well as reactive Inability to attract experienced professionals with initiatives; increased employee engagement.
ability to grow. • Leveraging top employer brand and social networking sites and talent sourcing channels to tap into the passive pool.
• Reducing talent acquisition cycle time to improve joining rates through innovative practices.
• Upskill or cross-skill employees to improve competencies.
• Engaging in various markets through investments in STEM/GoIT programs, building local talent, building reputation locally to attract talent, campus engagements, etc.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Restrictions on Distributed software development models require the • Ongoing monitoring of the global environment, working with advisors, partners and global mobility, free movement of people across countries and any governments.
talent including freshers, use of contractors, local mobility and training in all major Restrictions on mobility due to the pandemic or geo- markets.
eligibility criteria or costs leading to project delays and anywhere. Use of Location Independent Agile to promote systematic collaboration increased expenses. and reduce the need for co-location.
designed to structurally increase the availability of engineering talent in major markets.
• Greater brand visibility through event sponsorships, community outreach, showcasing of investments, innovation capabilities and employment generation.
• Increased outreach to government stakeholders, trade bodies, think tanks and research institutes.
buyers within the enterprise, giving rise to entirely development and IP asset creation leveraging deep contextual knowledge across new business models and therefore new kinds of customer specific domain, technologies and processes.
competitors.
transformational and operational solutions on leading cloud technology platforms spanning advisory, migration and modernization and support of applications.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a major • Staying relevant to customers by constantly launching new service practices and acceleration of technology investments by customers technology solutions including a new AI-Powered business command solution to help to make themselves future-proof and also to power firms assess risk profiles and protect employees returning to offices and modernizing the revival of their business. This is resulting in existing offerings and solutions.
• Develop capabilities in organization divestiture and integration planning to cater to pace with the rapidly changing customer expectations.
Failure to cope may result in loss of market share and related services.
impact business growth.
Artificial Intelligence led products to enable customers derive greater business value acquisitions in some customer industries.
and discover opportunities to transform and grow their businesses.
• Implement Location Independent Agile methods to mitigate location constraints and pricing and margin pressures.
strong connections in academia and the start-up ecosystem to spot new trends and technologies and launch offerings around them.
• Enhancing ability to craft and win large deals.
• Go to market solutions by working along with partners and alliances, to enable faster transformation turnaround times for clients.
transaction and translation exposure. TCS’ functional to limit impact of exchange volatility on receivables, forecasted revenue and other currency is the Indian Rupee. Appreciation of the current assets and liabilities.
reported revenue in Rupee terms, the profitability and Committee of the Board convened on a regular basis.
also result in collection losses.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Breach of data The focus on data privacy and protection of personal • Global privacy policy covering all geographies and areas of operations, which sets out protection laws data has increased significantly over the last few the privacy principles and guidance for deployment.
Data Privacy regulations to ensure protection of privacy regulations to monitor and drive implementation of data protection principles.
security breaches can result in substantive liabilities, framework in all functions and business units.
fines or penalties and reputational impact.
• Privacy Information Management Systems (ISO 27701:2019) adopted and certified.
• Continuous monitoring and analysis of changes to regulatory and legal landscape and enhancing the data privacy framework.
new or changed internal processes or services or products. Robust and continued governance of personal data processing.
• Data protection controls and robust risk response mechanisms in place to protect personal data in the TCS ecosystem and also in the customer engagements.
• Industry standard data masking and encryption technologies to protect personal data.
• Vendors and third parties contracted with privacy obligations and tracked for compliance based on risk assessment.
privacy regulations. Continuous awareness campaigns through blog posts, email broadcasts, gamification, roadshows and online events.
• Implementing and maintaining data transfer agreements, where required for the transfer of data across jurisdictions.
• Periodic reviews and audits by independent audit firm to verify compliance to obligations in addition to internal audits across the ecosystem.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Cyber attacks Risks of cyber-attacks are forever a threat on account • Advanced tools based on AI/ML aiding prevention and detection requirements with of the fast-evolving nature of the threat. There is also quarantine capabilities, including Perimeter security controls with advanced tools, an increased risk due to various pandemic themed enhanced internal vulnerability detection, data leak prevention tools, defined and cyber threats and attacks due to geo-political drivers. tested incident management and recovery process in compliance with industry best practices.
threats like phishing, soliciting for fraudulent causes or charities, suspicious pleas and Market Opportunity: communication through social media, text or calls.
building cyber resilience to be able to detect and foil private Cyber Intelligence agencies, and enhanced awareness of emerging cyber intrusion attempts, and limit the impact. This presents threats.
the extensively used enterprise-wide communication and collaboration platforms accessed through mobile or desktop channels.
• Strict access controls including non-persistent passwords (OTP) for secure access to enterprise applications/network. Special handling of privileged administrator accounts.
Rigorous access management on all Cloud deployments.
• Encryption of data, data back-up and recovery mechanisms for ensuring business continuity.
• Ability to isolate TCS enterprise network from client network and defined escalation mechanisms to handle security incidents in client environment.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation • Periodic rigorous testing to validate effectiveness of controls through Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Testing.
• Internal and external audits, red teaming, breach and attack simulation.
launch of new services and solutions including the Cyber Defense Suite, are helping TCS gain traction in this rapidly growing opportunity.
to complex and with a complex regulatory landscape across multiple enables tracking of changes to applicable laws and regulations across various changing global jurisdictions, covering areas such as Employment and jurisdictions, including new countries of operations and functional areas.
regulations Labour, Immigration, Taxation, Foreign Exchange and Export Control, Sanctions, Environment, Health and • Operationalizing regulatory requirements through business policies and processes.
• Clear accountability for compliance obligations and digitized tracking of such activities and so on.
with evidence and verification.
increasing in number and complexity. This has resulted self-governance and covers compliance across all the locations of the company.
in greater compliance risk and cost of compliance for the company.
• Adequate and effective internal controls to comply with regulations and to keep a check on unlawful and fraudulent activities and internal audits to provide assurance.
• Strong focus on fostering ethical and compliance culture; Awareness through implications and adaptation in business operations.
Failure to comply could result in penalties, reputational on regulatory changes communicated to stakeholders.
damage and criminal prosecution.
• Strong governance at board, executive and management level through compliance committees and compliance working groups.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Intellectual Property Risk of infringement of third-party IPs by TCS may lead • TCS has established an industry leading IP management framework (IP 4.0) and (IP) infringement to potential liabilities, increased litigation and impact accordingly has institutionalized frameworks, processes and procedures that address and leakage reputation. the risk of infringement of third-party IP while ensuring safeguarding of TCS’ own IP assets. This strong focus on IP-led growth driven based on the 3P (Patents, Products Inadequate protection of TCS’ IP may lead to loss of IP and Platforms) strategy is contributing significantly towards thinning the competition leading to potential loss of ownership rights, revenue for TCS.
and value.
strives to build an IP thinking culture and hence covering the IP related awareness aspects effectively.
incorporates policy guidance and risk mitigation guidelines on IP, Legal, software product engineering and business-related risks.
• IP Governance program that ensures that there is right access and right use of TCS IP, customer IP, partner IP, and third-party IP in service and partner engagements.
• Other key controls include employee confidentiality agreement, training and awareness for IP protection and prevention of IP contamination and infringement.
Digitized system to enable strict controls around movement of people and information across TCS’ product teams and customer account teams.
“Invent & Inspire” wherein top inventors and their invention stories are recognized for their success and impact on business.

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation Litigation risks Given the scale and geographic spread of the • Strengthening internal processes and controls to adequately ensure compliance with company’s operations, litigation risks can arise from contractual obligations, information security and protection of intellectual property.
• Improved governance and controls over immigration process /increasing localization property rights and employment related matters.
and sensitization of business managers.
litigations without any legal merit. This risk is inherent • Potential disputes are promptly brought to the attention of management and dealt to doing business across the various countries and with appropriately.
placed in the industry. In addition to incurring legal law firms in countries it operates in.
negative media attention and pose reputation risk. • Robust mechanism to track and respond to notices as well as defend the company’s Adverse rulings can result in substantive damages. position in all claims and litigation.
- Climate change weather conditions like intense winter storms, rainfall, processes, frameworks and infrastructure. All TCS Centers globally continue to be and Environmental cyclones, droughts, are attributable to climate change. certified under the ISO14001:2015 Environment Management Standard.
there are also increasing cases of seasonal diseases, plans tested periodically to ensure effectiveness.
carbon footprint; adoption of newer technologies and methods to manage waste in With globally distributed operations, the company line with circular economy principles.
weather events; transition risks resulting from upgradation of water infrastructure and more water efficient systems.
disruptions in the market and emerging regulations;
disruptions to operations due to water scarcity; risks of • Water management through sewage treatment, recycling of treated water and rainwater harvesting.
9 GRI 201-2

Key Risks Impact on the Company Mitigation inadvertent non-compliance to emerging regulatory • Supply Chain sustainability through responsible sourcing.
solid waste regulations, impacting health and safety in • Year-round associate engagement on environmental awareness and sensitizing them local communities, business disruption and reputational towards nature and conservation of resources.
damage.
• Initiatives like TCS Circle4Llife™ and sustainathons to come up with technology-led Market dimension and opportunity: innovations to safeguard environment.
• There is also a commercial opportunity to Market dimension and opportunity:
• As TCS moves towards its net-zero goal by business opportunities for TCS to provide technology-led solutions to help them 2030, being a socially responsible and purposeful realize their green plans.
talent. • Key solution areas include designing sustainability strategy, sustainability innovation, sustainable consumer analytics and sustainable dashboards.
• Additionally, TCS products and solutions such as TCS Clever Energy™, Envirozone™, ESG integration Solution, help customers accelerate their sustainability journeys.

Internal Financial Control Systems and their of power with authority limits for approving international practice, the conduct of internal audit is Adequacy contracts as well as expenditure. Processes for oriented towards the review of internal controls and formulating and reviewing annual and long-term risks in the company’s operations such as software TCS has aligned its current systems of internal business plans have been laid down. TCS uses a delivery, accounting and finance, procurement, financial control with the requirement of Companies state-of-the-art enterprise resource planning (ERP) employee engagement, travel, insurance, IT Act 2013, on the lines of the globally accepted system that connects all parts of the organization, processes, including most of the subsidiaries and risk-based framework issued by the Committee of to record data for accounting, consolidation and foreign branches.
to increase transparency and accountability specific compliances such as quality management, in an organization’s process of designing and TCS management assessed the effectiveness service management, information security, etc.
been designed to provide reasonable assurance reporting (as defined in section 143 of Companies of directors informed of its major observations with regard to recording and providing reliable Act 2013). periodically.
and approved by the audit committee. In line with company’s internal financial controls were adequate and operating effectively.

Performance Trend – 10 years Amounts in ` Crore Ind AS Indian GAAP FY 2022 FY 2021* FY 2021 FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2015# FY 2015 FY 2014 FY 2013 Revenue from operations Total revenue from operations 191,754 164,177 164,177 156,949 146,463 123,104 117,966 108,646 94,648 94,648 81,809 62,989 Revenue by geographic segments Americas 100,072 84,278 84,278 82,000 77,562 66,145 66,091 60,011 51,053 51,053 45,259 35,247 Europe 61,142 52,346 52,346 48,037 43,456 34,155 30,038 29,092 26,730 26,730 23,433 16,813 India 9,805 8,449 8,449 8,964 8,393 7,921 7,415 6,729 6,108 6,108 5,488 4,890 Others 20,735 19,104 19,104 17,948 17,052 14,883 14,422 12,814 10,757 10,757 7,629 6,039 Cost Employee cost 107,554 91,814 91,814 85,952 78,246 66,396 61,621 55,348 48,296 50,924 40,486 31,922 Other operating cost 31,143 25,817 27,035 28,888 28,711 24,192 24,034 22,621 19,242 19,242 16,170 13,027 Total cost (excluding interest & depreciation) 138,697 117,631 118,849 114,840 106,957 90,588 85,655 77,969 67,538 70,166 56,656 44,949 Profitability EBITDA (before other income) 53,057 46,546 45,328 42,109 39,506 32,516 32,311 30,677 27,110 24,482 25,153 18,040 Profit before tax 51,687 44,978 43,760 42,248 41,563 34,092 34,513 31,840 28,437 25,809 25,402 18,090 Profit after tax attributable to shareholders of the 38,327 33,388 32,430 32,340 31,472 25,826 26,289 24,270 21,912 19,852 19,164 13,917 Company Financial Position Equity share capital 366 370 370 375 375 191 197 197 196 196 196 196 Reserves and surplus 88,773 87,014 86,063 83,751 89,071 84,937 86,017 70,875 52,499 50,439 48,999 38,350 Gross block of property, plant and equipment 30,300 28,658 28,658 26,444 24,522 22,720 20,891 19,308 16,624 16,624 13,162 10,996 Total investments 30,485 29,373 29,373 26,356 29,330 36,008 41,980 22,822 1,662 1,662 3,434 1,897 Net current assets 65,959 66,076 65,125 63,177 70,047 63,396 65,804 47,644 30,726 28,495 27,227 19,734 Earnings per share in ` EPS - as reported 103.62 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 134.19 133.41 123.18 111.87 101.35 97.67 70.99 EPS - adjusted for Bonus Issue 103.62 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 67.10 66.71 61.59 55.94 50.68 48.84 35.50 Headcount (number) Headcount (including subsidiaries) as on March 31st 592,195 488,649 488,649 448,464 424,285 394,998 387,223 353,843 319,656 319,656 300,464 276,196 Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
# Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Overview of Funds Invested Funds invested exclude earmarked balances with banks and equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. (` crore) FY 2022 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY 2021 FY 2022 FY 2021
Current Non-current Total funds invested Investments in mutual funds, Government securities 30,262 29,160 187 175 30,449 29,335 and others Deposits with banks 15,784 3,848 1,232 719 17,016 4,567 Inter-corporate deposits 6,074 11,229 303 27 6,377 11,256 Cash and bank balances 2,211 5,272 - - 2,211 5,272 Total 54,331 49,509 1,722 921 56,053 50,430 Total invested funds include `1,722 crore and `1,306 crore for FY 2022 and FY 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Ratio Analysis – 10 years Ratio Analysis Ind AS Indian GAAP Unit FY 2022 FY 2021* FY 2021 FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2015# FY 2015 FY 2014 FY 2013 Ratios - Financial Performance Employee Cost / Total Revenue % 56.1 55.9 55.9 54.8 53.4 53.9 52.2 50.9 51.0 53.8 49.5 50.7 Other Operating Cost / Total Revenue % 16.2 15.7 16.5 18.4 19.6 19.7 20.4 20.9 20.4 20.3 19.8 20.7 Total cost (excluding interest & depreciation) / % 72.3 71.6 72.4 73.2 73.0 73.6 72.6 71.8 71.4 74.1 69.3 71.4 Total Revenue EBITDA (Before Other Income) / Total Revenue % 27.7 28.4 27.6 26.8 27.0 26.4 27.4 28.2 28.6 25.9 30.7 28.6 Profit Before Tax / Total Revenue % 27.0 27.4 26.7 26.9 28.4 27.7 29.3 29.3 30.0 27.3 31.1 28.7 Tax / Total Revenue % 6.9 7.0 6.8 6.2 6.8 6.7 6.9 6.9 7.2 6.6 7.4 6.4 Effective Tax Rate - Tax / PBT % 25.6 25.5 25.6 23.2 24.1 24.1 23.6 23.6 23.5 23.7 23.9 22.2 Profit After Tax / Total Revenue % 20.0 20.3 19.8 20.6 21.5 21.0 22.3 22.3 23.2 21.0 23.4 22.1 Ratios - Growth Total Revenue % 16.8 4.6 4.6 7.2 19.0 4.4 8.6 14.8 15.7 15.7 29.9 28.8 EBITDA (Before Other Income) % 14.0 10.5 7.6 6.6 21.5 0.6 5.3 25.3 7.8 (2.7) 39.4 25.0 Profit After Tax % 14.8 3.2 0.3 2.8 21.9 (1.8) 8.3 22.3 14.3 3.6 37.7 33.6 Ratios - Balance Sheet Debt (excluding lease liabilities) - Equity Ratio Times - - - - - 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current Ratio Times 2.6 3.0 2.9 3.3 4.2 4.6 5.5 4.1 3.9 2.4 2.7 2.7 Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in ` terms Days 65 67 67 71 68 74 70 81 79 79 81 82 Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) in $ terms Days 64 68 68 67 69 74 73 80 78 78 82 82 Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Ratio Analysis Ind AS Indian GAAP Unit FY 2022 FY 2021* FY 2021 FY 2020 FY 2019 FY 2018 FY 2017 FY 2016 FY 2015# FY 2015 FY 2014 FY 2013 Invested Funds / Capital Employed % 57.4 52.6 53.1 47.7 55.2 55.6 55.8 45.8 42.3 43.9 44.0 37.2 Capital Expenditure / Total Revenue % 1.5 1.9 1.9 2.0 1.5 1.5 1.7 1.8 3.1 3.1 3.8 4.2 Operating Cash Flows / Total Revenue % 20.8 23.6 23.6 20.6 19.5 20.4 21.4 17.6 20.5 20.5 18.0 18.4 Free Cash Flow / Operating Cash Flow Ratio % 92.6 91.9 91.9 90.5 92.5 92.8 92.3 89.7 84.8 84.8 78.9 77.3 Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment % 9.1 8.7 8.7 8.6 8.5 9.1 9.5 10.0 11.7 11.7 10.6 10.2 (PPE) / Average Gross Block of PPE Ratios - Per Share EPS - adjusted for Bonus ` 103.62 89.27 86.71 86.19 83.05 67.10 66.71 61.59 55.94 50.68 48.84 35.50 Price Earning Ratio, end of year Times 36.1 35.6 36.6 21.2 24.1 21.2 18.2 20.4 22.8 25.1 21.8 22.1 Dividend Per Share ` 43.00 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 50.00 47.00 43.50 79.00 79.00 32.00 22.00 Dividend Per Share - adjusted for Bonus ` 43.00 38.00 38.00 73.00 30.00 25.00 23.50 21.75 39.50 39.50 16.00 11.00 Market Capitalisation / Total Revenue Times 7.1 7.2 7.2 4.4 5.1 4.4 4.1 4.6 5.3 5.3 5.1 4.9 Note : The Company transitioned into Ind AS from April 1, 2015.
*Excluding provision towards legal claim.
#Excluding the impact of one-time employee reward.

Corporate I. Company’s Philosophy on Corporate In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Governance Governance Conduct for its non-executive directors which Report includes Code of Conduct for Independent Effective corporate governance practices Directors that suitably incorporates the duties constitute the strong foundation on which of independent directors as laid down in the successful commercial enterprises are built to Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
Insider Trading and the Code of Corporate vendors, investors and the society at large.
Disclosure Practices (“Insider Trading Code”).
governance practices have been the Company’s Security Policy that ensures proper utilization of hallmark inherited from the Tata culture and IT resources.
ethos.
transparent ethical governance, as embodied in governance.
the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC).
for its employees including the Managing governance structure1 of the organization are Director and the Executive Directors. covered in detail in this report.
1 GRI 2-9 IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Corporate Governance Report | 137

The various material aspects of corporate governance and TCS’ approach to them Material Topic TCS’ Approach are discussed in the table below: 2 Board effectiveness is further improved by ensuring that none of the directors holds directorships in more than seven listed entities, and Material Topic TCS’ Approach none of the executive directors serve as an independent director on Board Board effectiveness is enhanced by setting a high bar in selecting the Boards of more than three listed entities.
of minority management accountability and drive corporate ethics, values and ensures that minority shareholders’ interests are protected.
developments. The Company provides a variety of channels including in terms of backgrounds, areas of expertise and:
• Gender: 2 of the 9 (22.2 percent) members are women. minority shareholders can interact with the management or the Board.
• Industry: Technology, Banking, Energy, Transportation and complaints are tracked to closure. The Stakeholders’ Relationship Academia. Committee oversees the redressal of these complaints.
TCS’ policy on Appointment of Directors and Board Diversity can be found at https://on.tcs.com/appointment-BoD.
non-independent directors. Average tenure of independent directors is 5 years.
2 GRI 2-10

3 4 5 6 Material Topic TCS’ Approach Material Topic TCS’ Approach Avoidance of Chairmanship4 of the Board is a non-executive position, and separate Customers are made aware of the TCoC principles in contract conflict of interest3 from that of the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director discussions, and through inclusion of specific clauses in proposals and (CEO and MD). contracts.
position of responsibility, with or without remuneration, with any senior executives directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee other organization without TCS’ prior written approval. For executive under the Whistle blower Policy without fear of retaliation.
directors and the Managing Director, such approval must be obtained Information about these channels is communicated to employees as from the Board. part of the mandatory training modules.
global legislation such as Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Bribery Act, integrity while building a highly successful global business.
the corporate compliance office. Changes to legislation are closely for the Individual, Excellence, and Learning and Sharing.
monitored, risks are evaluated and effectively managed across our The TCoC serves as a moral guide and a governing framework for operations.
report to the Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director avoidance of conflicts of interest.
the Company. Annual refresher courses are mandated to ensure compliance to the TCoC, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy continued awareness of the Code. Further, frequent communications and Gift and Hospitality Policy. and to external regulations.
from the leadership reiterate the importance of the company values and the TCoC.
3 GRI 2-15 4 GRI 2-11
5 https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct 6 GRI 2-12

7 8 Material Topic TCS’ Approach Material Topic TCS’ Approach Tax Strategy7 TCS is committed to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, Board Oversight TCS’ approach to sustainable growth is built on the belief that it and believes in reporting to the respective tax authority, relevant of Sustainability can expand its business by creating longer term value for all its information that is complete and accurate, in a timely manner. Matters8 stakeholders, including employees, customers, suppliers and local communities, while also valuing the environment. The various TCS does not engage in aggressive and contrived tax planning or sustainability topics material to TCS are overseen by the relevant tax structuring for the purpose of gaining tax advantages. TCS’s tax Board committees, as outlined below:
Committee 7 GRI 207-1
8 GRI 2-12, GRI 2-14

• who are the Executive Directors serves as independent directors in Material Topic TCS’ Approach more than three listed entities.
devolves executive decision-making across over 150 business units companies as on March 31, 2022 have been made by the Directors.
enables robust succession planning and continuity and consistency in Subramaniam and N Chandrasekaran.
strategy. Succession planning for the top two leadership positions in each business unit is reviewed by senior management.
anticipated that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their directors to assess their values, competencies, and capabilities.
17 of the SEBI Listing Regulations read with Section 149 and 152 of the Section 150 of the Act read with Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment Act. and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.
ii. None of the Directors on the Board: iv. Five Board Meetings were held during the year under review and the gap between two meetings did not exceed one hundred and twenty days.
• holds directorships in more than ten public companies; The said meetings were held on:
• serves as Director or as independent directors in more than seven April 12, 2021; July 8, 2021; October 8, 2021; January 12, 2022 and listed entities; and March 10, 2022. The necessary quorum was present for all the meetings.

v. The names and categories of the directors on the Board, their attendance at Board Meetings held during the year under review and at the last Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), name of other listed entities in which the Director is a director and the number of Directorships and Committee Chairmanships/Memberships held by them in other public limited companies as on March 31, 2022 are given herein below. Other directorships do not include directorships of private limited companies, foreign companies and companies registered under Section 8 of the Act. Further, none of them is a member of more than ten committees or chairman of more than five committees across all the public limited companies in which he/she is a director. For the purpose of determination of limit of the Board Committees, chairpersonship and membership of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee has been considered as per Regulation 26(1)(b) of SEBI Listing Regulations.
Managing Director) Executive DIN 06365813
N Ganapathy Subramaniam Non- 5 Yes 1 2 - - 1. Tata Elxsi Limited @ (Chief Operating Officer Independent, 2. Tata Communications Limited @ and Executive Director) Executive 3. Tejas Networks Limited @ DIN 07006215

Name of the Director and Category Number of Whether Number of Directorships Number of Committee Directorship in other listed entity DIN Board Meetings attended last in other Public positions held in other Public (Category of Directorship) attended during AGM held on Companies Companies the FY 2022 June 10, 2021 Chairman Member Chairman Member O P Bhatt Independent, 5 Yes - 4 2 5 1. Hindustan Unilever Limited # DIN 00548091 Non-Executive 2. Tata Steel Limited # 3. Tata Motors Limited # 4. Aadhar Housing Finance Limited (Debt Listed) # Aarthi Subramanian Non- 5 Yes 2 5 1 3 Tata Capital Limited (Debt Listed) @ DIN 07121802 Independent, Non-Executive Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla Independent, 5 Yes - - - - - DIN 03611983 Non-Executive Hanne Sorensen Independent, 5 Yes - 1 - 2 Tata Motors Limited # DIN 08035439 Non-Executive Keki Mistry Independent, 5 Yes 1 4 1 5 1. Housing Development Finance DIN 00008886 Non-Executive Corporation Limited $ 2. Torrent Power Limited # 3. HDFC Life Insurance Company Limited ^ 4. HDFC Asset Management Company Limited@ Don Callahan Independent, 5 Yes - - - - - DIN 08326836 Non-Executive Category of directorship held:
Due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and consequent relaxations granted by MCA and SEBI, all Board meetings in FY 2022 were held through video conferencing.

vi. During FY 2022, information as mentioned in Part A of Schedule II of x. The Board has identified the following skills/expertise/competencies the SEBI Listing Regulations, has been placed before the Board for its fundamental for the effective functioning of the Company which are consideration. currently available with the Board:
various geographical markets, industry verticals and performance of Non-Independent Directors, Board as a whole and regulatory jurisdictions.
Strategy and Planning Appreciation of long-term trends, strategic choices and Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
experience in guiding and leading management teams to make decisions in uncertain environments.
Governance Experience in developing governance practices, serving applicable to the Company.
term effective stakeholder engagements and driving March 31, 2022 are given below:
corporate ethics and values.
Aarthi Subramanian Non-Independent, Non-Executive 5,600 is a proven academician in the field relevant to the Company’s business.
Keki Mistry* Independent, Non-Executive 4,150 special skills with regard to the industries/fields from where they come.
*includes shares held jointly with relative The Company has not issued any convertible instruments.

III. Committees of the Board i. There are six Board Committees as on March 31, 2022, details of which are as follows:
Section 177 of the Act. between two meetings did not exceed O P Bhatt Independent, Non-Executive one hundred and twenty days.
financial statements and auditors’ report thereon Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla Independent, Non-Executive statutory auditors and internal auditors, to be before submission to the Board for approval. Hanne Sorensen Independent, Non-Executive present at its meetings.
• Evaluation of internal financial controls and risk Don Callahan Independent, Non-Executive • The Company Secretary acts as the Secretary management systems. to the Audit Committee.
compliance and effective implementation of the Company.
Insider Trading Code.
of the Committee on matters relating to the implementation of the same.
Insider Trading Code.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and on June 10, 2021 and was attended by Gift and Hospitality Policy. Keki Mistry, Chairman of the Audit Committee.

Name of the Extract of terms of reference Category and composition Other details Committee Nomination and Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of Name Category • Two NRC meetings were held during the year Remuneration Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations and under review.
O P Bhatt (Chairman) Independent, Committee Section 178 of the Act.
• Recommend to the Board the setup and N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, Stock Option Scheme.
composition of the Board and its Committees.
re-appointment of Directors and Key Managerial Non-Executive Remuneration Policy are provided at Personnel. serial no. III (iii) below.
its Committees and individual Directors. *Ceased to be a member of the Committee on June 10, 2021 and was attended by w.e.f. October 8, 2021. O P Bhatt, Chairman of the NRC.
Key Managerial Personnel as well as the rest of employees.
• Oversee familiarization programs for Directors.
Stakeholders’ Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of Name Category • Two meetings of the SRC were held during the Relationship Regulation 20 of SEBI Listing Regulations and year under review.
Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla Independent, Committee Section 178 of the Act.
• Consider and resolve the grievances of security Rajesh Gopinathan Non-Independent, Officer are provided at serial no. III (ii) below.
holders.
• Review activities with regard to the Health Safety Dr Pradeep Kumar Khosla, Chairman of the and Sustainability initiatives of the Company. SRC.

Name of the Extract of terms of reference Category and composition Other details Committee Corporate Social Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of Name Category • Three meetings of the CSR Committee were Responsibility Section 135 of the Act. held during the year under review.
N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, (“CSR”)
• Formulate and recommend to the Board, a CSR (Chairman) Non-Executive Committee • Three Board meetings of TCS Foundation, Policy indicating the activities to be undertaken by O P Bhatt Independent, a Section 8 company which was incorporated the Company as specified in Schedule VII to the Non-Executive with sole objective of carrying on CSR activities Act.
N Ganapathy Subramaniam Non-Independent, of the Company were held during the year.
incurred on the activities mentioned in the CSR Policy.
• Monitor the CSR Policy.
Risk Management Committee is constituted in line with the provisions of Name Category • Five meetings of the RMC were held during the Committee Regulation 21 of SEBI Listing Regulations. year under review.
Keki Mistry Independent, (“RMC”)
(Chairman) Non-Executive • Formulate, monitor and review risk management • Fortnightly reports on management of foreign policy and plan, inter-alia, covering investment of Don Callahan Independent, exchange risks are made available to the surplus funds, management of foreign exchange Non-Executive members of the RMC.
delegate the said power to such person as may V Ramakrishnan* Chief Financial Officer deem fit.
*Ceased to be a member of the Committee consequent to his retirement w.e.f. April 30, 2021.
**Appointed as a member of this Committee w.e.f. May 1, 2021.

Name of the Extract of terms of reference Category and composition Other details Committee Executive Detailed review of the following matters which form Name Category The said matters were discussed in various Board Committee part of terms of Executive Committee, were presented meetings held during the year under review in the N Chandrasekaran Non-Independent, to the Board: presence of the Executive Committee Members with (Chairman) Non-Executive the intent to avail expertise of all Board members.
• Business and strategy review;
• Capital and revenue budgets and capital expenditure programmes;
• Acquisitions, divestments and business restructuring proposals;
• Senior management succession planning;
• Any other item as may be decided by the Board.
ii. Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee-other details a. Name, designation and address of Compliance Officer:
Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde, Company Secretary Tata Consultancy Services Limited, 9th Floor, Nirmal Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021, India.
Telephone: +91 22 6778 9595 b. Details of investor complaints received and redressed during FY 2022 are as follows:

iii. Nomination and Remuneration The remuneration policy supports such the Act, based on the Board evaluation Committee-other details mobility through pay models that are process considering the criteria such as compliant to local regulations. In each the performance of the Company as well Performance Evaluation Criteria for country where the Company operates, as that of the Managing Director and each Independent Directors: the remuneration structure is tailored to Executive Director.
by the Nomination and Remuneration The Company pays remuneration by way of for attending meetings of the Board and Committee. An indicative list of factors on salary, benefits, perquisites and allowances meetings of committees of the Board.
customer centricity and requires employee and within the ceilings prescribed under meetings, as well as the time spent mobility to address project needs.
9 GRI 2-19

on operational matters other than at meetings. The Company also b) Managing Director and Executive Director reimburses the out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Directors for (` lakh) attending the meetings. The Remuneration policy is available on Name of Director Salary Benefits, Commission ESPS* https://on.tcs.com/remuneration-policy.
and Allowances iv. Details of the Remuneration for the year ended March 31, 2022:
Chief Executive Officer and a) Non-Executive Directors:
N Chandrasekaran, Chairman@ - 3.0 further period of five years w.e.f.
is made towards commission to the Non-Executive Directors of paid are not available.
six months’ salary in lieu thereof. There is no separate provision for payment of severance pay.

v. Number of committee meetings held and attendance records Name of the Committee Audit Committee Nomination and Stakeholders’ Corporate Social Risk Management Remuneration Committee Relationship Committee Responsibility Committee Committee No. of meetings held 4 2 2 3 5 Date of meetings April 12, 2021; April 12, 2021 and July 22, 2021 and April 9, 2021; April 6, 2021;
July 8, 2021; October 8, 2021 January 28, 2022 August 19, 2021 and July 2, 2021;
October 8, 2021 and October 21, 2021@ October 6, 2021;
@ TCS Foundation, a Section 8 company incorporated in 2015 with sole objective of carrying on CSR activities of the Company, has held three meetings during the FY 2022
* Aarthi Subramanian ceased to be a member of the NRC w.e.f. October 8, 2021 ** V Ramakrishnan ceased to be a member of the RMC w.e.f. April 30, 2021 *** Samir Seksaria was appointed as member of the RMC w.e.f. May 1, 2021 Due to the exceptional circumstances caused by the COVID-19 pandemic all committee meetings in FY 2022 were held through video conferencing.

IV. General Body Meetings ii. Details of special resolution passed through postal ballot, the persons who conducted i. General Meeting the postal ballot exercise, details of the voting pattern and procedure of postal a. Annual General Meeting (“AGM”): ballot:
MCA Circular announced on February 12, 2022.
means only (remote e-voting) in a fair and Special resolution for re-appointment of O P Bhatt as an Independent Director was passed at the transparent manner.
AGM held in 2019 and no special resolution was passed in the previous AGMs held in 2020 and
2021.

Description of the Votes in favour of the resolution Votes against the resolution Invalid votes Resolution Number of Number of Percentage of Number of Number of Percentage of Total number of Total number members voted valid votes cast total number of members valid votes cast total number of members whose of invalid votes (Shares) valid votes cast voted (Shares) valid votes cast votes were cast (Shares) declared invalid Approval for Buyback 13,474 3,42,48,03,887 99.67 823 1,12,58,517 0.33 0 0 of Equity Shares Procedure for postal ballot: The postal ballot was carried out as per the provisions of Sections 108 and 110 and other applicable provisions of the Act, read with the Rules framed thereunder and read with the General Circular nos. 14/2020, 17/2020, 02/2021 and 21/2021 dated April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, January 13, 2021 and December 14, 2021 respectively issued by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs.
iii. Details of special resolution proposed to be conducted through postal ballot:
None of the businesses proposed to be transacted at the ensuing AGM requires passing of a special resolution through postal ballot.
V. A certificate has been received from Parikh & Associates, Practising Company Statutory Auditors of the Company. The particulars of payment of Statutory Secretaries, that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company has Auditors’ fees, on consolidated basis for FY 2022 is given below:
Particulars Amount Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority.

VII. Other Disclosures Particulars Statutes Details Website link for details/policy Related party transactions Regulation 23 of SEBI Listing There are no material related party transactions during the year under review https://on.tcs.com/RPT Regulations and as defined that have conflict with the interest of the Company. Transactions entered into under the Act with related parties during FY 2022 were in the ordinary course of business and at arms’ length basis and were approved by the members of Audit Committee including Independent Directors.
The Board’s approved policy for related party transactions is uploaded on the website of the Company.
related to capital markets during the last three financial years.
Whistle Blower Policy and Regulation 22 of SEBI Listing The Company has this Policy and has established the necessary vigil mechanism https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP Vigil Mechanism Regulations for directors and employees to report concerns about unethical behaviour.
No person has been denied access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The said policy has been uploaded on the website of the Company.
the significant events in the six month period ended September 30, 2021 was sent to every member.
• The auditors’ report on financial statements of the Company are unmodified.
• Internal auditors of the Company make quarterly presentations to the Audit Committee on their reports.

Particulars Statutes Details Website link for details/policy Subsidiary Companies Regulation 24 of the SEBI The Audit Committee reviews the consolidated financial statements of the https://on.tcs.com/Subsidiary Listing Regulations Company and the investments made by its unlisted subsidiary companies.
developments of the unlisted subsidiary companies are periodically placed before the Board of Directors of the Company.
The Company does not have any material unlisted subsidiary company.
The Company has a policy for determining ‘material subsidiaries’ which is disclosed on its website.
D&CC/FITTC/Cir-16/2002 shares in physical form and the total number of dematerialized shares held with dated December 31, 2002. NSDL and CDSL.
Director, on the compliance declarations received from the members of the Board and Senior Management forms part of this report.

Particulars Statutes Details Website link for details/policy Dividend Distribution Policy Regulation 43A of the SEBI A regular annual dividend generally consists of three interim dividends after each https://on.tcs.com/Dividend Listing Regulations of the first three quarters of the fiscal year, topped up with a final dividend after the fourth quarter.
In addition, every second or third year, the accumulated surplus cash has been returned to shareholders through a special dividend.
Terms of Appointment of Independent Regulation 46 of SEBI Listing Terms and conditions of appointment/re-appointment of Independent Directors https://on.tcs.com/ApptID Directors Regulations and Section 149 are available on the Company’s website.
Disclosure under the Sexual Harassment Section 134 of the The details have been disclosed in the Business Responsibility and Sustainability of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Companies Act, 2013 read Report forming part of the Integrated Annual Report.
The quarterly, half-yearly and annual financial results of the Company are published in leading newspapers in India which include The Indian Express, Financial Express, Loksatta, Business Standard, The Hindu Business Line, Hindustan Times and Sandesh. The results are also displayed on the Company’s website www.tcs.com.
(FAQs) giving details about the Company and its shares is uploaded on the Company’s website https://www.tcs.com/investor-relations. The Management Discussion and Analysis Report is a part of the Integrated Annual Report.

IX. General shareholder information vi. Stock Codes/Symbol i. Annual General Meeting for FY 2022 NSE : TCS BSE : 532540
Date : June 9, 2022 Listing Fees as applicable have been paid.
April 8, 2020, April 13, 2020, January 13, 2021 and Decembe r viii. Market Price Data:
AGM. High, Low (based on daily closing prices) and number of equity shares traded during each month in FY 2022 on NSE and BSE:
For details, please refer to the Notice of this AGM.

ix. Performance of the share price of the Company in comparison to the xi. Places for acceptance of documents:
BSE Sensex:
Documents will be accepted at the above address between 10.00 a.m. and TCS Share price and BSE Sensex Movem ent 3.30 p.m. (Monday to Friday except bank holidays).
130.00 at the following branches of TCPL:
110.00 Branches of TCPL:
Base 10 0 = Thursday, April 1, 2021 Fort, Mumbai-400 001.

form are effected through the depositories with no involvement of the Place Name and Address Phone/Fax/Email Company. Members holding shares in physical form are requested to New Delhi TSR Consultants Private Limited Tel: +91 11 49411030 consider converting their holdings to dematerialized form. The Directors C/o Link Intime India Private Limited Email: tcpldel@tcplindia.co.in and certain Company officials (including Chief Financial Officer and Noble Heights, 1st Floor Company Secretary) are authorized by the Board severally to approve Plot No NH-2, C-1 Block, LSC transfers, which are noted at subsequent Board.
Near Savitri Market, Janakpuri New Delhi – 110 058 xiii. Shareholding as on March 31, 2022:
Jamshedpur TSR Consultants Private Limited Tel: +91 657 2426937 Bungalow No. 1, ‘E’ Road, Email: tcpljsr@tcplindia.co.in a) Distribution of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2022:
10001-20000 1,08,42,206 0.3 767 0.0 xii. Share Transfer System:

b) Categories of equity shareholding as on March 31, 2022: c) Top ten equity shareholders of the Company as on March 31, 2022:
IEPF account 5,56,402 0.0 (PAN) of the shareholder.
TOTAL 365,90,51,373 100.0 xiv. Dematerialization of shares and liquidity:
Securities Identification Number (ISIN) allotted to the Company’s shares is INE467B01029.

xv. Outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or any convertible instruments, The voting rights on the shares outstanding in the suspense account as conversion date and likely impact on equity: on March 31, 2022 shall remain frozen till the rightful owner of such The Company does not have any outstanding GDRs/ADRs/Warrants or shares claims the shares.
have not been issued in the past. xviii. Transfer of unclaimed/unpaid amounts to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF):
xvi. Commodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging activities:
Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”), dividend, if not claimed for a period of activities, please refer to Management Discussion and Analysis Report.
seven years from the date of transfer to Unpaid Dividend Account of the xvii. Equity shares in the suspense account: Company, are liable to be transferred to IEPF.
suspense account are as follows: unclaimed for seven consecutive years or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account shall also be transferred to IEPF Authority.
shareholders equity shares is a specific order of Court, Tribunal or Statutory Authority, restraining Aggregate number of shareholders and the outstanding 26 1,640 any transfer of the shares.
Authority, are uploaded on the Company’s website Shareholders whose shares are transferred to the - - https://on.tcs.com/unclaimed-dividend.

in respect of which dividend has not been claimed for seven consecutive a. For shareholders of TCS:
years or more from the date of transfer to unpaid dividend account, have also been transferred to the demat account of IEPF Authority.
dividend FY 2022 are as follows:
a physical copy of the same, duly signed to the Company, along with January 11, 2018 February 10, 2025 requisite documents enumerated in the web Form No. IEPF-5.

b. For shareholders of erstwhile CMC Limited which has since Financial Year Date of declaration Last date for amalgamated with the Company:
June 11, 2020 July 11, 2027 xix. Plant locations:
June 10, 2021 July 10, 2028 a manufacturing facility at 17-B, Tivim Industrial Estate, Karaswada, Mapusa– Bardez, Goa.
2021-22 July 8, 2021 August 7, 2028 October 8, 2021 November 7, 2028 xx. Address for correspondence:

DECLARATION REGARDING COMPLIANCE BY PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD MEMBERS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
PERSONNEL WITH THE COMPANY’S CODE OF To the Members of spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we certify that CONDUCT Tata Consultancy Services Limited the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI This is to confirm that the Company has adopted We have examined the compliance of the conditions Listing Regulations for the year ended on March 31, a Code of Conduct for its employees including the of Corporate Governance by Tata Consultancy 2022.
Independent Directors. These Codes are available on Schedule V of the Securities and Exchange the management has conducted the affairs of the the Company’s website. Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Company.
Business Unit Heads, Global Head-Legal and the financial statements of the Company. Mumbai, April 11, 2022 Company Secretary as on March 31, 2022.
Management and considering the relaxations granted DIN: 06365813

CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS (Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Schedule V Para C clause (10)(i) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015) To, been debarred or disqualified from being appointed Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment/ The Members or continuing as Directors of companies by the continuity of every Director on the Board is the
Tata Consultancy Services Limited Securities and Exchange Board of India, Ministry responsibility of the management of the Company.
No. Appointment in Directors of Tata Consultancy Services Limited Company.
6. Dr. Pradeep Kumar 03611983 January 11, 2018 Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
officers, we hereby certify that none of the Directors on the Board of the Company as stated below for *the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal.

AWARDS AND Intellectual Capital • Won the Artificial Intelligence Breakthrough Award in the category Best AI-based Solution ACCOLADES • Recognized for Best Patents Portfolio in the – Retail for TCS Optunique™ for its ability to Large Enterprise category at the Confederation deliver unified and contextualized experiences of Indian Industry Industrial Intellectual across the omnichannel journey by evaluating Property Awards 2021. customer intent in real time.
property (IP) ecosystem. unified personalized experiences across the omnichannel journey.
participants from 34 countries. 2021 under the Best Use of IT in Healthcare category.
pharmacovigilance by applying machine vision, Services Category for its innovative AI-based artificial intelligence, smart analytics and IoT to Sanitation Inspection system.
• Won 4 Stevie awards for innovation and IP at safety cases.
the International Business Awards 2021:
Excellence Awards for continuously monitoring employees’ category.
behavior to enable businesses in making AI- Business Technology Solution category – enabled integrated decisions. AI/ML solution.
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Awards and Accolades | 166

o Silver Stevie for TCS Omnistore™ in the • TCS’ PredictCX won ‘Most Innovative Best India. TCS topped the list in measures of ability Business Technology Solution category – Practice’ Award under the customer experience to advance, skills growth, company stability, Emerging Technology. category at the CII DX Awards 2021. external opportunity, company affinity, gender diversity and spread of educational backgrounds.
Innovation – COVID-19 Response Data Management Insight Awards 2021. the seventh year in a row by the Top Employers category. Institute.
for seamlessly bringing together knowledge,
• Won two awards at the IoT Global Awards and Diversity Champion.
Smart Store in the Retail, Marketing and “The Equalizer” category for empowering supply-chain ecosystem.
• Won 6 Stevies® – 5 gold and 1 silver – at workplace and persistently driving diversity,
• TCS ADD Regulatory platform won the India the 2021 Asia-Pacific Stevie Awards for equity, and inclusion initiatives.
transformation, and quickly addressing the for Excellence in Performance Management
• Two TCS-built solutions featured in the 2021 requirements of operating during COVID-19. Process and Technology.
Digital Twin Platform for Saipem won the Human Capital • Xcelerate won Gold in the HR Excellence Energy and Utilities Standout Award as well as Awards for best HR Technology Strategy.
list of the best workplaces for career growth in under the Product category.

the health and wellness of its employees and Relationship Capital • Won the 2021 Economic Times Best Brand of investments in organic talent development. UAE award for brand reputation in the Middle BRAND BUILDING
East region.
most valuable brand in IT services globally, Innovations.
Companies to Work For in India. • Named a UK Superbrand for the seventh Sweden, Norway and Finland.
Transformation and Excellence in Recruitment strong market reputation, digital initiatives and Group).
of Professionals. business growth.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
• Won 14 Gold Medals, 3 Silvers and 3 • Awarded two Diamond awards at the 2021 Bronzes at the 2021 Brandon Hall Group ITSMA Marketing Excellence Awards in the • Ranked #2 Most Honored Company in Asia Excellence in Learning Awards, across categories – Embedding ABM Programs and (ex-China) for bagging several top rankings in Leadership Development (4 Golds), Learning Orchestrating Executive Engagement. the Technology / IT Services & Software sector & Development (3 Golds, 2 Silvers), Diversity, in Institutional Investor’s 2021 All-Asia (ex- • Won 3 gold and 2 bronze Eventex Awards for Equity and Inclusion (3 Golds, 1 Silver), Japan) Executive Team rankings based on a its ThisRun campaign and the Virgin Money Talent Acquisition (2 Golds, 1 Bronze), Talent survey of 4,084 investment professionals at London Marathon Event App, as well as for Management (1 Gold, 1 Bronze), Workforce 1,285 financial services firms across Asia. Top excellence across marketing and customer Planning & Management (1 Gold) and Sales rankings included Best IR Professional (#1), engagement.
Training (1 Bronze). Best IR Program (#2), and Best ESG (#2).

• Recognized by Institute of Chartered Accountants of India with a Gold Firm Report type Title Shield Award for Excellence in Integrated Reporting in Service Sector at Everest PEAK Matrix Digital Product Engineering Services PEAK Matrix® the ICAI Sustainability Reporting Awards 2020-21.
Physical and Digital Worlds INDUSTRY ANALYST
Everest PEAK Matrix Artificial Intelligence (AI) Services PEAK Matrix® • Ranked the #1 Engineering Services PEAK Matrix Provider of the Year Group Assessment 2022 2022 by Everest Group for the highest consolidated score across five HFS Top 10 HFS Top 10: Insurance Services, 2022 engineering services PEAK Matrix evaluations published in 2021, in each of Everest PEAK Matrix Oracle Cloud Applications (OCA) Services PEAK which TCS was ranked a Leader. Group Matrix® Assessment 2022 – Global NelsonHall NEAT Quality Engineering 2022 • TCS was ranked a Leader in 92 competitive assessments published by Everest PEAK Matrix Digital Interactive Experience (IX) Services PEAK leading research firms in FY 2022 (86 in FY 2021):
Quadrant Services Q4

Firm Report type Title Firm Report type Title Q3 Zinnov Zones Zinnov Zones 2021 - IoT - Internet of Things Everest PEAK Matrix Enterprise Blockchain Services PEAK Matrix® Technology Services (Overall) Group Assessment 2022 Everest PEAK Matrix Mainframe Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2022 Everest PEAK Matrix Cloud Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2022 – Group Group Europe Everest PEAK Matrix Healthcare Analytics Services PEAK Matrix® Everest PEAK Matrix Cloud Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2022 – Group Assessment 2022 Group North America NelsonHall NEAT Life, Annuities & Pension: Operational Transformation Everest PEAK Matrix Digital Workplace Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2021 Group 2022 HFS Top 10 HFS Pega Service Providers Top 10 2021 HFS Top 10 HFS Top 10: Enterprise Blockchain Services, 2021 HFS Top 10 HFS OneOffice™ Services Top 10: Data and Decisions Everest PEAK Matrix Advanced Analytics and Insights (AA&I) Services PEAK IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Oil and Gas Upstream Group Matrix® Assessment 2022 Asset Management Digital Services 2021 Vendor Everest PEAK Matrix Supply Chain Management (SCM) BPS – Service Assessment Group Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix® Assessment Everest PEAK Matrix Enterprise Quality Assurance (QA) Services PEAK 2022 Group Matrix® Assessment 2022 HFS Top 10 HFS OneOffice Services Top 10: People and Process HFS Top 10 HFS OneOffice Services Top 10: Native Automation Change Everest PEAK Matrix Banking Operations – Services PEAK Matrix® Everest PEAK Matrix Life and Pensions (L&P) Insurance BPS/TPA – Service Group Assessment 2022 Group Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix® Assessment IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Managed Multicloud 2022 Services 2021 Vendor Assessment NelsonHall NEAT Advanced Digital Workplace Services 2021 - NEAT NelsonHall NEAT Digital Manufacturing Services 2021 HFS Top 10 HFS Top 10: Life Sciences service providers, 2021 Everest PEAK Matrix Software-Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN) HFS Top 10 HFS Top 10: Internet of Things (IoT) Service Providers Group Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2021 2021 Q2

Firm Report type Title Firm Report type Title ISG Lens ISG Provider Lens™ Utilities Industry - Services and NelsonHall NEAT Procurement Transformation 2021 Solutions - Everest PEAK Matrix Network Transformation and Managed Services PEAK NelsonHall NEAT Wealth & Asset Management Services 2021 Group Matrix® Assessment 2021 Everest PEAK Matrix Finance and Accounting Outsourcing (FAO) – Service Forrester Wave The Forrester Wave™: Application Modernization And Group Provider Landscape with PEAK Matrix® Assessment Migration Services, Q3 2021 2021 Forrester Wave The Forrester Wave™: Continuous Automation And IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Life Science R&D ITO Testing Services, Q3 2021 Services 2021 Vendor Assessment Everest PEAK Matrix Capital Markets Operations – Services PEAK Matrix® IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Life Science R&D Group Assessment 2021 Strategic Consulting Services 2021 Vendor Everest PEAK Matrix Data and Analytics (D&A) Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment Group Assessment 2021 Everest PEAK Matrix Procurement Outsourcing (PO) – Service Provider IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape: European Smart Manufacturing Group Landscape with Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment Service Providers 2021 Vendor Assessment 2021 HFS Top 10 Banking and Financial Services – The Best of the Best Everest PEAK Matrix Exploring the Future of Mobility: Autonomous, Service Providers 2021 Group Connected, Electric, and Shared (ACES) Mobility Q1

o Two 2021 Microsoft Partner of the Year Awards – Azure Intelligent Firm Report type Title Cloud in France and Dynamics 365 Field Service in the US, for IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Artificial Intelligence demonstrating excellence in innovation and providing outstanding Business Services 2021 Vendor Assessment solutions and services based on Microsoft technology.
NelsonHall NEAT CX Services in BFSI 2021 for the high standard of excellence in building innovative solutions that IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Smart Manufacturing help customers achieve their growth and transformation objectives.
Chartis Market GRC Solutions: RiskTech Quadrant® for conduct and Quadrants control solutions, 2021 AWS Partner Awards in Australia and New Zealand.
Automobiles) for Marketing Cloud at Salesforce Partner Innovation Chartis Market GRC Solutions: RiskTech Quadrant® for MRM Awards 2021.
Services 2021 Vendor Assessment Awards 2021 in the Manufacturing Transformation and Game Changer IDC MarketScape IDC MarketScape. Asia/Pacific Intelligent Automation categories respectively.
Everest PEAK Matrix S/4HANA Services PEAK Matrix® Assessment 2021 Integrated Delivery Experience.
Management Services 2021 Middle East & Africa.
PARTNER Americas and AARI Solutions Partner - EMEA at the company’s annual
• Won over 30 awards from technology alliance partners: Virtual Partner Summit.
demonstrating innovative thinking, outstanding customer service, and category from Automation Anywhere.
best-in-class use of Google Cloud products and solutions.

o Recognized as the 2022 Americas Premier o Celonis BPO Partner of the Year at the Social Capital Partner of the Year by MuleSoft. Celonis Ecosystem Summit 2021.
Changer - Enterprise Business category Services Partner of the Year (Enterprise Business Process Services and IT Center in in India and South Asia at the Red Hat Category) at the 2021 IFS Partner of the Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
Partner Awards. Year Awards.
Integration and API from Software AG. Cognitive Automation at the BMC Service Industry for TCS’ commitment to the French Provider eXchange (SPeX).
o Intel Partner of the Year 2021. o 2021 Partner of The Year Award by investments in talent development, innovation, o HPE GreenLake Ecosystem Partner of Smart Message. and regional growth.
CyberRes, a Micro Focus line of business. Solution of the Year at the NASSCOM Award of Excellence.
o Zscaler’s Global Solutions Integrator the cognitive speech algorithms that generate Year 2021.
Partner of the Year 2021. speech output in the tone, mother tongue and o Named International Partner of the Year near-real sound of the child using it.
o MongoDB Global System Integrator 2021 by Ping Identity.
growth and transformation journeys for 2021 by GoTo Partner Network. to drive social impact of its community businesses across industries. o Named Qlik’s North America System engagement programs.
Integrator of the Year.
Year FY21, for accelerating innovation and o System Integrator Partner Innovation CMO Corporate Social Responsibility Award at increasing the ease of doing business. award from Qlik. CMO Vision and Innovation Awards 2021.

Corporate Social Overview Through its unique engagement model, TCS leverages its intellectual capability, technology Responsibility TCS’ vision is to empower people and communities expertise, large employee base volunteering their to build self-reliance through technology while time and skills and of course financial capacity to promoting the values of fairness, equity and respect invest in programs that deliver longer term social for human rights. Its mission is to connect people to impact across the globe.
Principles and Rights at Work, and the United to empower communities, create generational Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human improvements and build greater futures.
on education, skilling, employability, and digital hours of their volunteering time to support local entrepreneurship with a focus on bridging the community initiatives.
hygiene, conservation, and disaster relief efforts to support the basic needs of communities.
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Corporate Social Responsibility | 174

Adult Literacy Program - Creating access to The impact of this program has been literacy on a path to livelihoods transformational and transgenerational. It is ‘Sampa’ stands out for her promoting social inclusion, financial stability and perseverance and Despite years of investments, illiteracy continues economic growth, empowering neo-literates with dedication, and for showing to be a core impediment stopping individuals from better access to the financial system, government that self-will and realizing their potential. TCS’ Adult Literacy Program, benefit programs and a greater say in family and determination triumphs through its digital literacy solution has been community decision-making.
first approached one of West Africa. Women have been a key target group, Program outcomes include:
children especially girls to go to school. was in her mid-twenties, illiterate and for their children, especially girls, in their families.
them women, have benefited from this program. The has increased because of this program.
shattered sense of self.
ALP, she gradually started taking interest process in their family.
to functional literacy, to empower communities. New of tomorrow requires new age skills and capabilities Institute of Open Schooling results were modules on the platform include financial literacy to be productive. Computational thinking is one announced, and she got an A grade.
run by the partner organization, and is able to benefit from the adoption of new technologies.
In FY 2022, over 7,400 learners gained basic literacy However, there has been limited integration of this to handle the finances of the café business skills. skill within classrooms across the globe. Educators and contribute meaningfully.

not empowered to embed this within the learning learning demands, all aspects of the program were • $10K+ average savings to each district and curriculum. restructured for online delivery, remaining inclusive educator from free training.
of communities with varying digital access and tools.
India, Latin America and APAC, has created global IMF launched its largest Global Innovations Teacher Program for Students access for educators and students to hone this Project to-date with 24 teachers from 5 countries The jobs of tomorrow are changing rapidly.
communities. In FY 2022, the program empowered nearly Science Foundation, it is predicted that 80% of the 435,000 students and educators.
form of math and science skills. The lack of sufficient resources, immersive and interactive engagements Program outcomes include:
and creativity in school curricula, are seen as big Program ensures that the program addresses the their classroom post-training.
challenges to the digital economy.
journey - creating long-term integration of a • 90% educators reported they have returned to highly valued skill set. To meet virtual and hybrid in-person instruction.
computational thinking come to life for her students, in all core subjects. She and her students have participated in two IMF Global Collaborations through which she has had the opportunity to collaborate with teachers from around the world.
classroom gets bigger and the world gets smaller for her students. This project has also been beneficial to one of her French speaking students as he is able to translate his videos and other students’ videos allowing collaboration to happen even across language barriers.
“My students have found that through connecting with other students outside of their community they are more alike, than they are different.” Anne supports and collaborates with like-minded educators though IMF global network of Learning Leaders.

TCS’ flagship digital innovation and career readiness program, goIT (go Innovate Together), prepares Four learners from Sinenjongo High School in Cape Town, students with the skills and mindsets to pursue celebrated their win in the goIT Tech-savvy Challenge, careers of the future. Through engaging design hosted by TCS in partnership with Steam education workshops and custom mentorship experiences, specialist Sakhikamva Foundation.
schools across the Western and Eastern Cape battle it out computer sciences.
goIT uses a four-pronged model of (1) volunteer local communities. Eventually, learners from Sinenjongo driven engagements, in-person or virtually, (2) High and Goodwood College took the top three positions.
mentorship experiences designed to introduce participants of the competition but inspired by learners from Cape Town who worked hard to win the student local experts and opportunities. Each prong, tech challenge.
mentoring by industry professionals from TCS, makes “What we have seen in this year’s South African goIT Challenge is young people expressing their ability to be goIT a unique program that helps students develop problem-solvers who can contribute to a better world,” said Jaconet.
core skills that enable them to be productive in the Speaking about her team’s app idea, WO-MEN, Sinenjongo High School learner Lilitha Masizana said:
jobs of tomorrow.
students who have designed more than 26,000 tech-for-good digital innovation prototypes.
In FY 2022, more than 30,000 students and educators benefited from this program.
insights from their TCS volunteer mentor. of how technology can be used to improve their Program outcomes include:
community.
• 87% students felt they could be computer • 80% showed an increased interest in STEM and scientists after their goIT experience. Computer Science.

Youth Employment Program - connecting India’s skills and competencies required to make them a rural youth to careers in digital economy highly viable industry resource. Biki had dreams of attending college after she graduated from high school, but the family could • Ensured continuous availability of highly skilled TCS’ Youth Employment Program (YEP) focuses not afford it. Instead, she took up a hospitality and cross-functional talent pool for the industry.
• Promoted sustained and inclusive economic of the existing workforce is very poor - especially English in a school for four years.
trained in India and LATAM, of whom more than learned about TCS’ Youth Employment Program that are available in the market.
the market. Over the last two years, the program has had never seen her father’s recruitment drive in Siliguri.
historically marginalized and low-income children’s hostel. At Biki’s own school, only the testimony to a life of independence and self- families, with industry-specific experiential local language was used during instruction. respect.

Program outcomes include: connect for people in the villages, delivering essential in urban towns. Through this strategic approach, the digital services in the areas of education, adult program has:
elementary occupations. between youth in rural, underserved areas and those digital entrepreneurs.
Twenty-seven-year-old entrepreneur Bapi Raita is a member of the Saura of role as earning member.
family and community. earning a diploma in Civil Engineering, Bapi was forced to do odd jobs to make ends meet for his family.
in villages have prevented communities from mentoring provided by the BridgeIT facilitators, an opportunity which would accessing opportunities presented by the digital have never been possible.
economy.
Since 2014, the TCS’ BridgeIT program has business. As his business began growing, so did his earnings. Bapi is now earning nearly ` 1.30 lakhs from addressed social inequalities by empowering just ` 4,000 before completing BridgeIT.
local NGOs, TCS engages the cohort through a fulfilment when he carries out his role as a Leader.
technology, tools and resources. These digital Bapi proudly says, “BridgeIT has changed my life and has brought hope of a good future for me and my family.

• Empowered them with digital technologies The program has received high appreciation The program focuses on convening experts from - facilitating a platform for essential online from stakeholders in the government and social technology, business, non-profit, public policy, and services within rural areas. organization such as Social Alpha, Tata Trusts and academia to ideate, collaborate, and create digitally Unltd India. There has been immense interest from driven solutions to social impact challenges. Since • Enabled them to educate students in various parts of the country in replicating the DISQ the inception of the program in 2018, Digital Government schools and support literacy for model. DISQ collaborated partners to identify Empowers has engaged with over 6,000 experts adults through digital tools and resources.
aspirational districts. In FY 2022, BridgeIT has ‘Most Promising Solution’ globally by a panel community issues, with the potential to scale and be enabled 321 entrepreneurs across 20 districts in 9 of water experts from Ramboll, Grundfos and applicable throughout the world.
competition. They were awarded scholarships to Program outcomes include:
participate in the International Water Congress
• 1.5X earnings compared to other self- 2022 in Copenhagen.
employed individuals in rural areas.
• 95% indicated increased income and improved reaching self-sufficiency.
standard of living.
• 92% women indicated higher self-esteem at Thought Leadership, Research and Insights home.
digital innovations. social issues, explore the art of what’s possible, and foster cross sector partnerships.
DISQ has nurtured over 55 changemakers from around 590 innovators since 2016.

TCS runs the Pitch for Purpose, a competition Health and Wellness online viewing directly by patients, without the need for start-up social entrepreneurs, to showcase for physically visiting the hospital to collect reports.
solution that creates carbon negative materials from service delivery as well as enhanced stakeholder genetically engineered algae. TCS has provided an integrated Hospital engagement via digitally enabled workflows.
unique insights, best practices, and key learnings solution providing 100% coverage of patients via high fidelity with over 99.9% uptime and accuracy.
show up or were not reachable. Patient care services (particularly in remote and rural villages) and is tools and technologies.
implemented this year improved patient satisfaction powered by solar power, best suited for off-grid and reduced anxiety. environments.
second COVID wave to facilitate care for COVID- beneficiaries across 14 villages spread across 8 states affected patients. Patient Care Coordinators (PCCs) and union territories in India.

local community of fast depleting groundwater levels, • The Resume Builder, an application created by backgroundsacross Italy kickstart their careers.
has been piloted with over 3,000 YEP
• Ensure equitable and adequate water quantity, San Martino Servizi.
participants and slated to be expand further in quality and periodicity.
the future.
Pro-Bono Technology Support to Social helping organizers of i.e., the Bank of America during in the pandemic.
Organisations Chicago Marathon to track their resource usage and impact for years.
and non-profits seeking to create social and drive to create a digital solution, leveraging Charitable Recycling Australia.
focused in helping non-nationals living services to social organizations. The company’s events.

Middle East with a focus on providing health services support, clean water and hygiene Praveen Kumar a TD education, women’s and children’s health and faculty from MBU, started Chai Eng Law an HR emergency response and preparedness, TCS volunteering for goIT Specialist has been an active helped reimagine their vendor prequalification program with training YEP volunteer for over six system and digitized the processes for improved workshops for around 400 years. Once her session was efficiency and operational resilience. students from a nearby scheduled over a weekend, yet the students seemed school in Kanchipuram.
we live and work. sorrows, anxieties, and stresses, hence far outweighed the inconveniences she faced.
boosting one's energy and spreading positivity.
in India, EVP team has worked with various internal examples and share real-world references to interview conducted by her.
TCS teams such as Safety First, Cares to create the enable students to relate to concepts and content for several community support initiatives. apply their learnings in everyday activities.

on the importance of vaccination to curb vaccine last 3 years, was launched in India, UK&I and • TCS volunteers helped cascade awareness hesitancy, facilitating mental health awareness LATAM. The program harnesses the leadership, materials around infection prevention and sessions for beneficiaries of the CSR initiatives and communication, and project management skills vaccination in remote communities, sourced the community at large. EVP team has owned and needed to create a sustained commitment from authentic sources such as the Government managed this entire process by liaising with internal to social impact within our industry and of India, MoHFW and WHO.
CSR teams and external TCS functions. communities.
• The TCS Cares program organized sessions to More than 58,900 TCS associates volunteered Empowering Communities in the Fight Against provide mental health support.
3, 4, 5, 8, 10, and 13. Initiatives to help communities deal with the poor and disabled families.
contributing 14,000+ hours to NGOs in India, literacy.
through which over 16,000+ volunteers from and groomed to improve their employability.
New livelihood avenues were made available for of service in their local communities.
1,600 COVID-affected families.
successfully running in North America for the and online government initiatives.

Business SECTION A: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 9. Financial year for which reporting is Responsibility being done: Financial year 2021-22 (April & Sustainability I. Details of the listed entity1 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022) Report 1. Corporate Identity Number 10. Name of the Stock Exchange(s) where (CIN) of the Listed Entity: shares are listed: NSE (National Stock L22210MH1995PLC084781 Exchange of India Limited) and BSE (formerly Bombay Stock Exchange)
2. Name of the Listed Entity:
Building, Nariman Point, Mumbai - 400 021, BRSR report:
8. Website: www.tcs.com 1 GRI 2-1, GRI 2-3
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Business Responsibility & Sustainability Report | 186

13. Reporting boundary - Are the disclosures under this report made ISO and financial audit.
basis (i.e. for the entity and all the entities which form a part of its GRI Assurance4: Ernst & Young has assured the data presented under consolidated financial statements, taken together).2 GRI Standards disclosures as specified in their Assurance Statement.
The scope and basis of assurance have been described in their assurance letter. The Board was not involved in seeking this assurance.
operations Human TCS’ global operations, including < 0.2% of the consolidated 14. Details of business activities (accounting for 90% of the turnover):
Resources wholly owned subsidiaries. headcount.
appraisals and statutory topics of this Integrated Annual Report.
are specific to the workforce based in India.
Environmental TCS’ Global operations (using Other TCS’ operations entity’s Turnover):
The data measurement techniques used, and the basis of calculations Operations and Products and Platforms.
and estimates have been mentioned in the relevant areas of this report.
Indicator Protocols. The scope, boundaries, and methodology for data
6311.
supporting data is reviewed by relevant third-party assurers as part of 2 GRI 2-2 4 GRI 2-5
3 GRI 2-4 5 GRI 2-6

III. Operations6 IV. Employees 16. Number of locations where plants and/or operations/offices of the 18. Details as at the end of Financial Year: FY 2021-22 entity are situated: a. Employees (including differently abled)7:
3. Total employees (D + E) 608,271 389,866 64.1 218,405 35.9
17. Markets served by the entity:
Note:
a. Number of locations • TCS’ global headcount excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
• All of TCS’ workforce is categorized as ‘Employees’ and none as ‘Workers’.
Hence in all the sections, details sought of the ‘Workers’ category are Not National (No. of States) 28 States and 8 Union Territories Applicable to TCS.
International (No. of Countries) 54 • Other than Permanent category includes contractors and interns.
b. What is the contribution of exports as a percentage of the total b. Differently abled Employees:
turnover of the entity?
In India, TCS works with departments of the Government of India, Note:
• Differently abled type includes Hearing, Visual, Locomotor, Orthopedic and private sector.
Others 6 GRI 2-6 7 GRI 2-7

19. Participation/Inclusion/Representation of women8 V. Holding, Subsidiary and Associate Companies (including joint ventures) Total (A) No. and percentage of Females 21. (a) Names of holding / subsidiary10 No. (B) % (B / A) Board of Directors 9 2 22.2 S. Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A) Indicate % of Does the entity No. whether shares indicated at Key Management Personnel 4 0 0.0 holding/ held by column A, Senior Management 29,966 3,980 13.3 Subsidiary listed participate in entity the Business Responsibility Note:
initiatives of the
• Key Management Personnel (KMP) are Chief Executive Officer and Managing listed entity?
Director (CEO&MD), Chief Operating Officer and Executive Director (COO), (Yes/No) Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Company Secretary (CS).
and business services), excluding non-wholly owned subsidiaries. 11. Tata Consultancy Services Asia Pacific Subsidiary 100 Yes Pte Ltd.
8 GRI 405-1 9 GRI 401-1 10 GRI 2-2

S. Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A) Indicate % of Does the entity S. Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A) Indicate % of Does the entity No. whether shares indicated at No. whether shares indicated at holding/ held by column A, holding/ held by column A, Subsidiary listed participate in Subsidiary listed participate in entity the Business entity the Business Responsibility Responsibility initiatives of the initiatives of the listed entity? listed entity?
12. Tata Consultancy Services (China) Co., Subsidiary 93.2 Yes 23. Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg Subsidiary 100 Yes Ltd. S.A.
13. Tata Consultancy Services Japan, Ltd. Subsidiary 66 No 24. Tata Consultancy Services Switzerland Subsidiary 100 Yes Ltd.
Inc. 27. Tata Consultancy Services De Espana Subsidiary 100 Yes S.A.
20. Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB Subsidiary 100 Yes 31. Tata Consultancy Services (Africa) (PTY) Subsidiary 100 Yes Ltd.
BV 32. Tata Consultancy Services (South Africa) Subsidiary 100 No (PTY) Ltd.

S. Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A) Indicate % of Does the entity S. Name of the holding / subsidiary/ (A) Indicate % of Does the entity No. whether shares indicated at No. whether shares indicated at holding/ held by column A, holding/ held by column A, Subsidiary listed participate in Subsidiary listed participate in entity the Business entity the Business Responsibility Responsibility initiatives of the initiatives of the listed entity? listed entity?
Postbank Systems AG) S.A.
Ltda 52. Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria Subsidiary 100 Yes EOOD
40. Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico Subsidiary 100 Yes S.A., De C.V. 53. Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, Subsidiary 100 No S.A.

VII. Transparency and Disclosures Compliances
23. Complaints/Grievances on any of the principles (Principles 1 to 9) under the National Guidelines on Responsible Business Conduct:
Shareholders Yes 87 - - 86 - - As per SEBI Listing Regulations.
in individual client contracts and addressed as per TCS Quality Policy.
Value Chain Partners https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP 0 0 - 0 0 - 11 GRI 2-25

24. Overview of the entity’s material responsible business conduct issues12 Please indicate material responsible business conduct and sustainability issues pertaining to environmental and social matters that present a risk or an opportunity to your business, rationale for identifying the same, approach to adapt or mitigate the risk along-with its financial implications, as per the following format S. No. Material issue identified Indicate Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt Financial implications of whether or mitigate13 the risk or opportunity risk or (Indicate positive or opportunity negative implications) (R/O)
1 Talent management: Risk Risk of failure in any of the elements of talent management Kindly refer the Enterprise Negative The company’s ability to attract, can impact the Company’s ability to fulfill demand and grow Risk Management section in develop, motivate, and retain talent is its revenues. Management Discussion and critical to business success. Analysis 2 Social responsibility: Health and Risk Has a direct impact on the health of TCS employees Kindly refer to the Employee Negative Wellness of TCS employees and besides productivity impact. Health and Wellbeing section associates of Management Discussion and Analysis 3 Environmental Footprint: Risk Extreme weather events due to climate change pose a Kindly refer to the Enterprise Negative Climate change physical risk of disruption to the company’s operations, Risk Management section in and the safety and wellbeing of its employees. Additionally, Management Discussion and economic disruptions due to transition risks can impact the Analysis.
company’s growth and profitability.
Analysis 12 GRI 3-2
13 GRI 3-3

S. No. Material issue identified Indicate Rationale for identifying the risk / opportunity In case of risk, approach to adapt Financial implications of whether or mitigate the risk or opportunity risk or (Indicate positive or opportunity negative implications) (R/O)
4 Environmental Footprint -Water Risk Water scarcity can impair the company’s operations and Employee education around Negative management disrupt business. saving water, more efficient use of water in campuses, Rain water harvesting, recycling of waste water.
management regulations around recycling and the circular economy can maximization of recycling and result in economic penalties and reputation damage. reuse.
and help build TCS’ brand reputation for alignment with local communities.

SECTION B: MANAGEMENT AND PROCESS DISCLOSURES Disclosure Questions P P P P P P P P P 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 This section is aimed at helping businesses demonstrate the structures, policies and Policy and management processes
processes put in place towards adopting the NGRBC Principles and Core Elements.
Responsibilities of Business (NVGs) released by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs principle and its core elements of the NGRBCs.
has adopted nine areas of Business Responsibility. These briefly are as follows:
P7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do 14 GRI 2-23
so in a responsible manner 15 https://on.tcs.com/Tata-Code-Of-Conduct 16 https://on.tcs.com/WhistleBP P8 Businesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development 17 https://www.tcs.com/sustainability-strategy 18 HR policies available to employees on Ultimatix, TCS Intranet P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and 19 https://on.tcs.com/Global-CSR-Policy 20 https://on.tcs.com/Environmental-Policy consumers in a responsible manner 21 GRI 2-24
22 GRI 2-23

Disclosure Questions P P P P P P P P P Disclosure Questions 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Governance, leadership and oversight 4. Name of the national and Y23 Y24 Y25 NA Y26 Y27 NA NA NA 7. Statement by director responsible for the business responsibility report, international codes/certifications/ labels/ standards (e.g. Forest highlighting ESG related challenges, targets and achievements (listed entity has Stewardship Council, Fairtrade, flexibility regarding the placement of this disclosure)31 Rainforest Alliance, Trustea) TCS has set forth its new carbon reduction goal to reduce its absolute greenhouse standards (e.g. SA 8000, OHSAS, gas emissions across Scope 1 and Scope 2 by 70% by 2025 (over 2016 base year), ISO, BIS) adopted by your entity and to achieve net zero emissions by 2030. The new goal is after having achieved and mapped to each principle.
the previous target of reducing its specific carbon footprint by half by 2020 (versus
5. Specific commitments, goals and N N N N N Y29 N N N baseline year FY 2008), ahead of schedule.
26 T CS is aligned with international laws, principles, and norms, including those contained in and business travel. Other elements of the company’s net zero aspiration include the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles greater use of renewable sources of energy and carbon removal offsets.
Enivronmental targets and achievements are part of Natural Capital section, which is and are a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) since 2006.
27 ISO 14001:2015, ISO 50001:2018 on Page 31 of Integrated Annual Report.
28 GRI 3-3

Disclosure Questions 8. Details of the highest authority responsible for implementation and oversight Name: Milind Lakkad of the Business Responsibility policy (ies).33 Designation: Chief Human Resources Officer Telephone number: 022 67789999 E-mail id: corporate.sustainability@tcs.com 9. Does the entity have a specified Committee of the Board/ Director responsible The Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee (SRC) of the Board of Directors is responsible for decision for decision making on sustainability related issues? (Yes / No). If yes, provide making on sustainability related issues.
06365813 Rajesh Gopinathan Member
10. Details of Review of NGRBCs by the Company:
Compliance with statutory requirements of relevance to the Statutory Compliance Certificate on applicable laws is Quarterly principles, and, rectification of any non-compliances provided by the CEO to the Board of Directors.
P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
11. Has the entity carried out independent assessment/ evaluation N Y Y N N Y N N N Annual where applicable of the working of its policies by an external agency? (Yes/No).
12. If answer to question (1) above is “No” i.e. not all Principles are covered by a policy, reasons to be stated: Not Applicable 33 GRI 2-13
34 GRI 2-9 35 GRI 2-5

SECTION C: PRINCIPLE WISE PERFORMANCE DISCLOSURE • Awareness programs covering the applicable principles were held and attended by all respective committee members of the Board and/or the Board This section is aimed at helping entities demonstrate their performance in of Directors.
integrating the Principles and Core Elements with key processes and decisions.
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Obligations) Regulations, 2015 and as PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with integrity, disclosed on the entity’s website)37:
and in a manner that is Ethical, Transparent and Accountable.
Principles during the financial year36: enforcement been agencies/ judicial preferred?
and Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC), which is adhered to by all employees. Punishment NIL NIL NA NA 36 GRI 2-17 37 GRI 2-27

3. Of the instances disclosed in Question 2 above, details of the Appeal/ 6. Details of complaints with regard to conflict of interest:
agencies/ judicial institutions, on cases of corruption and conflicts of
5. Number of Directors/KMPs/employees against whom disciplinary action interest.
Not Applicable corruption39:
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Directors NIL NIL KMPs NIL NIL Employees 3 (Under fraud) 2 (under Fraud)
Note:
where investigation by law enforcement agencies is underway, pending conclusion.
38 GRI 2-23 39 GRI 205-3

PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should provide goods and services in a manner that is sustainable and safe Essential Indicators 1. Percentage of R&D and capital expenditure (capex) investments in specific technologies to improve the environmental and social impacts of product and processes to total R&D and capex investments made by the entity, respectively.
Yes. TCS’ Sustainable Supply Chain policy and Green Procurement policy outline its commitment to making its supply chain more responsible and sustainable. The policies are available on our website:
Green Procurement policy https://on.tcs.com/GPP b. If yes, what percentage of inputs were sourced sustainably?
100% of TCS’ suppliers are covered in the responsible sourcing program.
3. Describe the processes in place to safely reclaim your products for reusing, recycling and disposing at the end of life, for (a) Plastics (including packaging) (b) E-waste (c) Hazardous waste and (d) other waste42.
operations. TCS has defined processes in place for reuse, recycle and safe end-of-life disposal for the products used in its operations. TCS conducts audit on waste recycling vendors for the safe disposal of e-waste, used lube oil, battery waste and other hazardous waste.
40 TCS Energy Management Solution – TCS AR FY 2016-17 41 GRI 308-1
42 GRI 306-2

4. Whether Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) is applicable to the entity’s activities (Yes / No). If yes, whether the waste collection plan is in line with the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) plan submitted to Pollution Control Boards? If not, provide steps taken to address the same.
No. EPR is not applicable to TCS.
Essential Indicators
1. a. Details of measures for the well-being of employees43:
Male Female Vendors and Contractors are required to adhere with the statutory compliance as per the state rules.
Total Note:
• Data specific to India.
• Paternity Leave benefit is applicable only to employees of the erstwhile eServe.
• There are no day-care facilities on TCS premises. TCS has location wise tie-ups with third-party run day care centers, which employees can avail of.
43 GRI 401-2

2. Details of retirement benefits, for Current FY and Previous Financial Year44.
total employees authority (Y/N/N.A.) total employees authority (Y/N/N.A.) PF 100 Y 100 Y
Gratuity 100 Y 100 Y ESI 6 Y 8 Y
SA 6 Y 7 Y NPS 1 Y 1 Y
Note:
• Data specific to India.
3. Accessibility of workplaces: Are the premises / offices of the entity accessible to differently abled employees and workers, as per the requirements of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016? If not, whether any steps are being taken by the entity in this regard.
Yes. The Tata Code of Conduct can be accessed at: https://www.tcs.com/tata-code-of-conduct. Additionally, there is a Disability Inclusion Policy governing TCS’ India operations, available to employees on the company’s local intranet.
44 GRI 201-3

5. Return to work and Retention rates of permanent employees that took 7. Membership of employees and worker in association(s) or Unions parental leave45. recognised by the listed entity47:
association(s) association(s) Note:
mechanism in brief. -Female 182,945 0 0.0 152,471 0 0.0 Yes/No Note:
(If Yes, then give details of the mechanism in brief) Data specific to India.
application to log their grievances in TCS internal portal, which
8. Details of training given to employees and workers48:
stipulated timelines Training and engagement are an important element for safety awareness.
based training. Further, TCS engages employees on H&S through various 45 GRI 401-3 47 GRI 2-30
46 GRI 2-25 48 GRI 404-1

communication channels like webinars trainings, posters, events, emails, floor meetings, skits, videos, and blog/posts on TCS intranet. Several campaigns like the Road Safety Awareness, Ergonomics Awareness, Fire Safety awareness, Incident reporting engage employees to make them more aware and safety conscious.
The number of employees who have completed the refresher training is given below:
Total 590,662 580,301 98.2 568,775 96.3 475,694 462,209 97.2 448,770 94.3 Note:
• The above data includes all Mandatory Policies related training including Health and Safety.
• The above data is based on Globally reported training and excludes employees on Leave Without Pay.
• Based on TCS’ global headcount of permanent employees. Excludes employees of non-wholly owned subsidiaries.
9. Details of performance and career development reviews of employees and worker49:
Total 383,072 379,829 99.2 427,723 423,019 98.9 Note:
• Data specific to India.
49 GRI 404-3

10. Health and safety management system: Mitigation plan and controls are provided to eliminate the identified hazards and risks.
and supporting processes to ensure the safety and well-being of its investigation and corrective action with the perspective of eliminating employees. Safety lead and lag indicators are measured across the hazards and preventing incidents.
b. What are the processes used to identify work-related hazards and people focus approach by involving consulting and training employees on assess risks on a routine and non-routine basis by the entity51? physical health, mental health, and wellbeing.
are identified and implemented to control the identified OHS risks. stakeholders. TCS Cares initiative has instituted programs for associates 50 GRI 403-1 52 GRI 403-2
51 GRI 403-2 53 GRI 403-6

and their families to help cope with the mental stress and anxiety. TCS 11. Details of safety related incidents54, in the following format:
Typical to any service sector company operating out of office-based premises, Fit4Life and similar initiatives.
access to non-occupational medical and healthcare services as well. observations and ensuring 100% closure of the reported incidents with Beyond the OHCs, TCS provides comprehensive medical and healthcare appropriate corrective and preventive actions.
counselling to employees through proactive HR connects and reach 12. Describe the measures taken by the entity to ensure a safe and healthy outs were conducted to extend support to employees battling with work place55.
managing the new normal Peer counselling for HRs was done to equip to eliminate hazards and reduce OHS risks.
psychology, providing basic emotional first aid skills is also being provided to HRs, Managers and employees.
54 GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10 55 GRI 403-2, GRI 3-3, GRI 403-9, GRI 403-10

Key occupational health related risks are associated with the key generic 13. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees56:
ergonomics risks arising due to computer usage, indoor air quality, workplace FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
illumination and noise and fire risk typical to an office building and general Filed Pending Remarks Filed Pending Remarks office risks including slips, trips, falls, electrical shock, etc. Hazard identification during resolution during resolution and risk assessment process is conducted to has helped identify each such the at the end the at the end risk and ensure that proper mitigation measures are put in place to create a year of year year of year healthy and safe work environment.
systems
14. Assessments for the year57:
musculoskeletal disorders (MSD’s) and low radiation computer monitors practices Occupational Health & Safety Standards. 100% of offices have for better visual health been audited during FY 2022 by qualified internal auditors at TCS.
employees on OHS aspects to inculcate a culture of safety occupational health & safety.
• Employee engagement campaigns on health & safety topics such as fire There were no statutory audits conducted on health and safety safety, road safety, emergency evacuation, ergonomics among others practices in FY 2022 for any of the offices in India.
There are no major H&S risks associated with TCS services as the company provides customized software solutions and IT services.
56 GRI 2-25 57 GRI 3-3

PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should respect the interests of and be responsive to % of your plants and offices that were assessed (by entity or statutory authorities or third parties) all its stakeholders Working TCS locations are subject to site safety inspections and reviews Conditions periodically by internal health & safety team with the perspective Essential Indicators of checking any health, hygiene and safety hazards and mitigating them. 1. Describe the processes for identifying key stakeholder groups of the entity59.
suppliers, partners and collaborators, industry bodies such as NASSCOM and CII, There were a few road/transport, slip, trip and fall related incidents during governments, NGOs, local communities, regulators and society at large.
practices have been emphasized as corrective measures. analysts, equity analysts, and the news media –are proxies for other named stakeholders – i.e. customers, shareholders, and society at large, respectively.
pre-scheduled on a periodic basis (fortnightly/ monthly/ quarterly/ annual) or continuous (e.g. website, social media).
58 GRI 403-10 59 GRI 2-29

2. List stakeholder groups identified as key for your entity and the frequency of engagement with each stakeholder group60 Stakeholder Group Whether identified as Channels of Communication Frequency of Engagement (Annually/ Purpose and scope of engagement Vulnerable & Marginalized Half yearly/ Quarterly / others – including key topics and concerns (Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, Group (Yes/No) please specify) raised during such engagement Advertisement, Community Meetings, Notice Board, Website), Other Customers No As needed: Project-related calls and • Continuous: TCS website; • Understanding client, industry and meetings; project management reviews; social media (LinkedIn, Twitter, business challenges relationship meetings and reviews; Facebook, Instagram, YouTube) • Identifying opportunities to executive meetings and briefings;
satisfaction surveys for cross-selling RFPs; sponsored events; mailers;
half-yearly financial performance concerns regarding company and summary of significant events policies, reporting, strategy, etc.
the TCS website expectations
• Annual: Annual General Meeting;
Annual Report 60 GRI 2-29

Stakeholder Group Whether identified as Channels of Communication Frequency of Engagement (Annually/ Purpose and scope of engagement Vulnerable & Marginalized Half yearly/ Quarterly / others – including key topics and concerns (Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, Group (Yes/No) please specify) raised during such engagement Advertisement, Community Meetings, Notice Board, Website), Other Employees No As needed: Town halls; roadshows; • Monthly: @TCS (in-house • Career Management and Growth project or operations reviews; video magazine) Prospects conferences; audio conference calls;

Stakeholder Group Whether identified as Channels of Communication Frequency of Engagement (Annually/ Purpose and scope of engagement Vulnerable & Marginalized Half yearly/ Quarterly / others – including key topics and concerns (Email, SMS, Newspaper, Pamphlets, Group (Yes/No) please specify) raised during such engagement Advertisement, Community Meetings, Notice Board, Website), Other Head-hunters; staffing firms; No One-time: RFIs/RFPs; empanelment As needed: Transactional meetings; • Diversity hiring initiatives and what other suppliers process periodic reviews; surveys are the biggest challenges Industry bodies, Regulators No As needed (need basis / usually 1-2 Annual: Conferences; summits • Ensure 100% compliance to all meetings in 3 months’ basis): local laws • Conferences and seminars, • working committee meetings, • surveys, • other meetings Governments; NGOs; local No As needed: Governance RFIs/RFPs; Continuous: TCS website • Understand areas for sustainable communities; media, industry presentations; project meetings; development analysts, society at large reviews; calls and meetings; surveys;
• Communicate TCS’ performance consultative sessions; field visits;
and strategy;
due diligence; calls and meetings;
conferences and seminars; surveys; • Manage TCS’ brand and press releases; press conferences; reputation;
events, Analyst Days leadership and insight into public and business concerns;

PRINCIPLE 5 Businesses should respect and promote human rights Essential Indicators
1. Employees who have been provided training on human rights issues and policy(ies) of the entity, in the following format61:
Total Employees 608,271 595,668 97.9 488,087 472,998 96.6 Note:
• Training details for TCS Global headcount.
61 GRI 2-24

2. Details of minimum wages paid to employees in the following format62:
Female 7,685 NA NA NA NA 5,162 NA NA NA NA Note:
• Other than Permanent category consists of contractors and interns. The professional fees / stipends paid to them are not comparable to the salaries paid to employees.
62 GRI 405-2

3. Details of remuneration/salary/wages, in the following format63:
(c) Senior 19,234 34.3 3,195 32.4 Notes:
between genders at middle and senior levels is due to a higher proportion of women at the junior ends of each cohort. TCS’ focused diversity and inclusion programs are expected to narrow this gap over time.
• Data is specific to India.
year, their median remuneration has not been stated
• Remuneration details of BoD and KMPs are as published in Integrated Annual Report FY 2022.
63 GRI 2-19, GRI 2-21 64 GRI 405-2

4. Do you have a focal point (Individual/ Committee) responsible for addressing human rights impacts or issues caused or contributed to by the business65? (Yes/ No) - Yes
5. Describe the internal mechanisms in place to redress grievances related to human rights issues66.
of any actual or potential violation of the Company Code, policies or law including human rights violation. Representations made in the reporting avenues are reviewed and appropriate action is taken on substantiated violations.
6. Number of Complaints on the following made by employees and workers67:
FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Filed during the Pending resolution at Remarks Filed during the year Pending resolution at Remarks year the end of year the end of year Sexual Harassment 36 16 Review in progress 27 8 Closed Discrimination at workplace 1 0 Closed 1 0 Closed Child Labour 0 0 0 0 0 0 Forced Labour/Involuntary Labour 0 0 0 0 0 0 Wages 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other human rights relatedi ssues 0 0 0 0 0 0
Notes:
• The above data is as on March 31, 2022 65 GRI 2-13
66 GRI 2-25 67 GRI 406-1

7. Mechanisms to prevent adverse consequences to the complainant in PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should respect and make efforts to protect and discrimination and harassment cases68. restore the environment Concerns on discrimination and harassment are dealt with confidentially. TCS Essential Indicators does not tolerate any form of retaliation against anyone reporting good faith concerns. Anyone involved in targeting such a person raising such complaints 1. Details of total energy consumption (in Joules or multiples) and energy will be subject to disciplinary action. intensity, in the following format70:
but TCS has increased the share of renewable electricity (RE) over the Yes.
purchase of Energy Attribute Certificate (EAC) (in select geographies). Other
9. Assessments for the year:
Discrimination at workplace the increased reporting boundary in FY 2022 covering operations in North America (NA), Asia Pacific (APAC), Europe and Middle East.
significant risks / concerns arising from the assessments at Question 9 above.
Not Applicable 68 GRI 2-25
69 GRI 2-23, GRI 2-24 70 GRI 302-1, GRI 302-3

Details of total energy consumption (in Mega Joules) and energy intensity are 2. Does the entity have any sites / facilities identified as designated provided in the table below: consumers (DCs) under the Performance, Achieve and Trade (PAT) Scheme of the Government of India? (Y/N) If yes, disclose whether targets set Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 under the PAT scheme have been achieved. In case targets have not been From renewable sources achieved, provide the remedial action taken, if any.
Not Applicable (A)
Total fuel consumption (B) 0 0 3. Provide details of the following disclosures related to water71, in the Energy consumption 8,482,654 0 following format:
consumption through conservation, sewage treatment and reuse, and (A+B+C)
rainwater harvesting. All new campuses have been designed for higher From non-renewable sources water efficiencies, 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater Total electricity consumption 672,917,518 880,609,895 harvesting. The detailed break up is given below:
(D) Total fuel consumption (E) 41,303,253 38,154,387 Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Energy consumption 0 0 Water withdrawal by source (in kiloliters) through other sources (F) (i) Surface water NIL NIL Total energy consumed 714,220,770 918,764,282 (ii) Groundwater 121,756 116,126 from non-renewable (iii) Third party water 1,243,889 1,209,121 sources (D+E+F) (iv) Seawater / desalinated water NIL NIL Energy intensity per rupee 0.00058 0.00066 (v) Others – Rainwater utilized 75,314 76,034 of turnover (Total energy Total volume of water withdrawal 1,440,959 1,401,280 consumption/turnover in (in kiloliters) (i + ii + iii + iv + v) rupees) Total volume of water 1,319,696 1,268,191 Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has consumption (in kiloliters) Water intensity per rupee of 0.0000007 0.0000008 been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external turnover (Water consumed /
agency.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
71 GRI 303-3, GRI 303-5

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has Parameter Please FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external specify agency.Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst unit & Young Associates LLP (EY). Persistent organic pollutants (POP) NA NA NA 4. Has the entity implemented a mechanism for Zero Liquid Discharge? If Volatile organic compounds (VOC) NA NA NA yes, provide details of its coverage and implementation72. Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) NA NA NA Others–please specify NA NA NA Yes, TCS has achieved zero liquid discharge across all the campuses. TCS optimizes water consumption through conservation, sewage treatment and Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has reuse, and rainwater harvesting. All new campuses have been designed for been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external 100% treatment and recycling of sewage, and rainwater harvesting. agency.
consent conditions. These reports are also verified during internal and external TCS’s operations in India have necessary consent under the Air (Prevention audits to check compliance.
compliance to the conditions which includes stack emission parameters like 6. Provide details of greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2 nitrous oxide, non-methane hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, particulate emissions) & its intensity, in the following format73:
The Scope 1 emissions are from direct GHG sources like fuel used in company required under the Consent To Operate (CTO) the DG.
and UK emission factors specific to the region published by local authorities are used. For other countries IEA v4 emission factors 2021 and GHG protocol/ IEA 2021 have been used.
72 GRI 303-1, GRI 303-2

of the Scope 1 + Scope 2 carbon footprint in FY 2022. The remaining 89.4% 7. Does the entity have any project related to reducing Green House Gas is from indirect emissions, referred to as Scope 2 emissions, associated with emission? If Yes, then provide details75.
purchased electricity. The breakup is provided as required in below table.
HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, if available) and renewable energy. These energy efficiency initiatives have resulted in
- CO2 tCO2e 2,813 2,789 avoidance of GHG emissions of approximately 3,200 tCO2e in FY 2022.
- CH4 tCO2e 1.38 8.6 Green Infrastructure and IT enabled operational efficiency:
Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 tCO2e/INR 0.00000008 0.00000013 green buildings by Indian Green Building Council (IGBC). These make up over emissions per rupee of turnover 64.4% of TCS’ total real estate portfolio in India.
monitor the energy use on real time basis to optimize it further by leveraging agency.
AI and ML.
Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY). Green IT:
74 TCS has not calculated the emission intensity per full time employee (FTE) during the pandemic years as the employees working out of offices was very less.
75 GRI 305-5

20 UPSs and 30 cooling units with more efficiency systems. The company 8. Provide details related to waste management by the entity, in the following achieved PUE of 1.65 at the two owned-premise TCS data centers at Yantra format77:
Bio-medical waste (C) 1.61 - improved rack per user ratio.
using or other recovery operations (in metric tonnes) portfolio further in the coming years.
Category of waste Carbon Neutrality:
America (NA) for FY 2022 in line with PAS 2060:2014 standards assured by 77 GRI 306-3; 306-4; 306-5
Bureau Veritas India Limited. 78 The value of e-waste generated in MT in FY 2021 pertains only to the consumer e-waste.

Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external -E-waste 583 11579 agency.
-Non-Hazardous waste 1,077 703 Associates LLP (EY).
(iii) Other recovery operations reduce usage of hazardous and toxic chemicals in your products and processes and the practices adopted to manage such wastes80.
Category of waste in any of its processes. The company has offices and facility operations, and (i) Incineration the waste is generated from the auxiliary processes used to run these facilities.
(iii) Other disposal operations recyclers as per regulations. E-waste is disposed to government approved Total 1,150 813 e-waste recyclers.
management practices for regulated wastes like hazardous and e-waste and are stored at the facilities and recycled through approved/ authorized vendors.
100% recycling on printer and toner cartridges, paper and packaging wastes.
TCS also ensures 100% disposal of biomedical waste (BMW) through govt authorized BMW disposal agencies in India as per regulatory requirements.
79 The value for e-waste disposed in MT in FY 2021 pertains only to the consumer e-waste, as IT e-waste disposed was recorded in numbers in FY 2021 (26,479 units). FY 2022 value categories to divert waste from landfill.
includes consumer and IT e-waste in MT.
80 GRI 306-2

10. If the entity has operations/offices in/around ecologically sensitive areas (such as national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, biosphere reserves, wetlands, biodiversity hotspots, forests, coastal regulation zones etc.) where environmental approvals / clearances are required, please specify details in the following format81:
S. Location of operations/offices Type of operations Whether the conditions of environmental approval / clearance are being complied with? (Y/N) No. If no, the reasons thereof and corrective action taken, if any.
Estate, Bhubanewar, Odisha the Special Economic Zone (SEZ) developed by the Odisha Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (IDCO).
11. Details of environmental impact assessments of projects undertaken by the entity based on applicable laws, in the current financial year82:
controlled by Kerala Government) TCS Siruseri New Tech Park SEZ is located SEIAA-TN/F.No:7790/ Jun 30, 2021 Yes Yes http://environmentclearance.nic.
is located at about 30 Kms from Chennai airport.
81 GRI 304-1 82 GRI 413-1, GRI 303-1

12. Is the entity compliant with the applicable environmental law/ regulations/ guidelines in India; such as the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, Environment protection act and rules thereunder (Y/N). If not, provide details of all such non-compliances, in the following format83:
Yes, TCS has complied with applicable environmental law/regulations / guidelines applicable in India. No fine/penalty/action was initiated against the entity under any of the applicable environmental laws/regulation/guidelines.
No. which was not complied with compliance pollution control boards or by courts NA NA NA NA
Leadership Indicators
1. Provide break-up of the total energy consumed (in Joules or multiples) from renewable and non-renewable sources, in the following format:
This information has been covered in Principle 6, Q1 of the Essential Indicators84.
83 GRI 2-27 84 GRI 302-1

2. Provide the following details related to water discharged85: Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters) Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
- No treatment 0 0 3. Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in areas of water stress (in
- With treatment – please specify level of Treatment 0 0 kiloliters):
For each facility / plant located in areas of water stress, provide the
- No treatment 0 0 following information86:
- No treatment 19,216 17,565 (iii) Water withdrawal, consumption and discharge in the following format:
Total volume of water withdrawal 531,427 526,066 Above data covers details pertaining to India geography only.
(in kiloliters) 85 GRI 303-4 86 GRI 303-3, 303-4

Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Parameter FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Total volume of water consumption 520,733 516,889 - With treatment – please specify level of 0 0 (in kiloliters) treatment Water intensity per rupee of turnover (Water 0.00000027 0.00000031 Total water discharged (in kiloliters) 10,694 9,178 consumed / turnover) Note: Indicate if any independent assessment/ evaluation/assurance has been Water discharge by destination and level of treatment (in kiloliters) carried out by an external agency? (Y/N) If yes, name of the external agency.
- No treatment 0 0 Yes. This data has been subject to independent assurance by Ernst & Young Associates LLP (EY).
4. Please provide details of total Scope 3 emissions & its intensity, in the (ii) Into Groundwater following format87:
- No treatment 0 0 87 GRI 305-3; GRI 305-4

Parameter Unit FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21 Sr. Initiative undertaken Details of the initiative Outcome of the No (Web-link, if any, may initiative Category 5 – Waste generated in tCO2e 639 492 be provided along-with operations summary) Category 7 – Employee tCO2e 139,50488 135,66789 1 Chandaka Wildlife sanctuary ● Installation of inward ● Inward direction commuting authority has developed the facing low intensity peripheral lights of (Work from home (WFH) emission trench followed by 5 feet peripheral lights low intensity to avoid is included in this category as wall with fencing along the ● Plantation of native/ any impact on wildlife per GHG protocol since both are border of the sanctuary indigenous plants, movement. High mast pandemic years) so that the possibility medicinal and spice lights in TCS parking area Category 6 – Business travel tCO2e 35,043 15,458 of elephants crossing garden, butterfly garden are switched off after the trench is eliminated 11 pm.
operations on wildlife is not Vermicomposting and medicinal, plant species as Total Scope 3 emission intensity - - - expected. However, TCS organic waste converter well as butterfly species.
Associates LLP (EY). within its campus towards organic manure and it is
5. With respect to the ecologically sensitive areas reported at Question 10 biodiversity conservation reused for landscaping.
impact of the entity on biodiversity in such areas along-with prevention ● Internal initiatives recycling of wastewater and remediation activities91. towards water and waste inside the premises.
recharging pits for enriching the water table.
90 Not calculated the emission intensity per full time employee (FTE) during the pandemic as an integral part of TCS Environmental Policy and its long-term plan for years as very few employees were working out of offices.
sustainable development. Biodiversity action plan is implemented across 91 GRI 304-2; GRI 304-3

19 TCS campuses in India to conserve and enhance urban biodiversity. 7. Does the entity have a business continuity and disaster management plan?
Biodiversity mapping for various flora and fauna species is conducted on an Give details in 100 words/ web link.
following format: in-house developed tools that support planning and communication with all stakeholders.
summary) the value chain of the entity. What mitigation or adaptation measures have been taken by the entity in this regard92.
efficiency projects upgraded with BEE star rated energy savings No significant adverse impact envisaged from TCS’ value chain.
2 UPS based energy UPS resizing / consolidation/ upgrades 1,681,454 kWh 9. Percentage of value chain partners (by value of business done with such efficiency projects of old UPSs with Modular UPS /Energy energy savings partners) that were assessed for environmental impacts93.
efficient UPS 3 Roof top solar Completed the roof top solar projects 1,030,766 kWh 100% of the value chain partners were assessed for environmental impacts.
TCS center (207 kWp) Kochi in Oct 21 solar roof top 92 GRI 308-2
93 GRI 308-1, GRI 308-2

PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses, when engaging in influencing public and regulatory 2. Provide details of corrective action taken or underway on any issues policy, should do so in a manner that is responsible and transparent related to anti-competitive conduct by the entity, based on adverse orders from regulatory authorities.
Ans. 10 in India. In addition, TCS also works through some of the bilateral/ multilateral international chambers based out of India.
2 Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) National (Yes/No) (Yes/No) 3 Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) National Tata Translational Yes Yes https://on.tcs.
10 Indo-Belgian-Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce and International solutions for cancer Industry patients.
94 GRI 2-28 95 GRI 2-28 96 413-1

2. Provide information on project(s) for which ongoing Rehabilitation and PRINCIPLE 9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their Resettlement (R&R) is being undertaken by your entity, in the following consumers in a responsible manner format:
Not applicable 1. Describe the mechanisms in place to receive and respond to consumer complaints and feedback99.
community97. TCS’ customers are provided with multiple mechanisms to report complaints or feedback.
any. Post program implementation, surveys and questionnaires capture the privacy officers is available in TCS website at https://www.tcs.com/privacy-policy feedback which is duly implemented. or as otherwise notified to the customers from time to time.
4. Percentage of input material (inputs to total inputs by value) sourced from acknowledge, analyze the incidents and develop an action plan to resolve it.
suppliers98:
updates customers about the progress of action taken. Any feedback from FY 2021-22 FY 2020-21
the customer is taken positively and action plans are refined to ensure utmost Directly sourced from MSMEs / small - - customer satisfaction.
Sourced directly from within the district and - - 2. Turnover of products and/ services as a percentage of turnover from all neighboring districts products/service that carry information about:
turnover the next reporting year.
Recycling and / or safe disposal NA 97 GRI 2-25, GRI 413-1
98 GRI 204-1 99 GRI 2-25

3. Number of consumer complaints in respect of the following:
Unfair Trade Practices NA NA NA NA NA NA
4. Details of instances of product recalls on account of safety issues:
Not applicable as TCS does not have any products that can entail safety issues
5. Does the entity have a framework/ policy on cyber security and risks related to data privacy? (Yes/No) If available, provide a web-link of the policy100.
Yes.
From data privacy aspects, TCS’ commitment to privacy is espoused in its TCS Global Privacy Policy. This is accessible at https://www.tcs.com/privacy-policy-commitment.
TCS has defined and implemented a Global Privacy policy that is applicable to all its legal entities, branches, lines of businesses and functions. The global privacy policy is a “gold standard of privacy” addressing applicable privacy regulations and based on inputs from industry bodies dealing with privacy.
100 GRI 2-23

The Global Privacy policy covers all stakeholders and constantly monitoring the publication of within the network to protect the information across the value chain including – employees vulnerabilities or various tools and software resources. Tools based on machine learning that (full-time and contracted), customers, partners, in use in the organization. The threat intel can detect and prevent known and unknown vendors/suppliers, and any other stakeholder information is processed in TCS’ AI/ML based ransomware, malware and active intruder whose Personal Data is processed. All third correlation tools and automated scripts ensure attempts to exploit like lateral movement, parties (vendors/suppliers) are engaged / that the indicators of compromise from the privilege escalation or credential dumping in contracted with adequate due diligence, and threat feeds are automictically blocked on the addition to many other malicious actions. AI/ commitment towards privacy obligations. perimeter devices. ML tools that can detect behaviour anomalies of users. Tools that can correlate audit logs From a cyber security aspect, TCS has TCS has also rearchitected its network and from various sources. Alerts from these tools implemented cutting edge security tools to has implemented tools in tandem to work in are monitored 24x7x365 by the TCS Cyber protect itself from external as well as internal a defence in depth model to provide a holistic Security Operations Center.
threats. protection against threat vectors/actors.
attacks, understanding the modus operandi malware protection and other email gateway red team exercises.
critical resources to ensure that the services detection capabilities. TCS has implemented a advertising, and delivery of essential services;
provided to each customer remains isolated.
comprehensive threat intelligence framework cyber security and data privacy of customers;
attack on a customer network, the segregated a nation state actor group, attackers for purely authorities on safety of products / services.
open source and vendor security feeds, threat In addition to the perimeter defences, TCS has issues / penalties.

Leadership Indicators 3. Mechanisms in place to inform consumers products / services of the entity, significant of any risk of disruption/discontinuation of locations of operation of the entity or the 1. Channels / platforms where information on essential services. entity as a whole? (Yes/No) products and services of the entity can be accessed (provide web link, if available). Each customer relationship in TCS has a Not Applicable business continuity mechanism to handle any www.tcs.com 5. Provide the following information relating to disruption of services/products and a suitable data breaches:
2. Steps taken to inform and educate consumers communication plan.
on the product over and above what is had any data breach incidents in FY 2022.

Independent Auditor’s Report Consolidated To the Members of consolidated changes in equity and consolidated cash Tata Consultancy Services Limited flows for the year then ended.
information (hereinafter referred to as “the provide a basis for our opinion on the consolidated consolidated financial statements”). financial statements.
of affairs of the Group as at 31 March 2022, of its opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate consolidated profit and other comprehensive loss, opinion on these matters.
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Consolidated Financial Statements | 233

Description of Key Audit Matter The Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit • these contracts may involve onerous • On selected specific and statistical samples Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts obligations which requires critical assessment of contracts, we tested that the revenue of foreseeable losses to be made by the recognized is in accordance with the revenue The Group inter alia engages in Fixed-price Our audit procedures included the following:
the input method based on the Group’s estimate progress (Contract assets), related to these Group for recording and computing revenue transaction price;
and the associated contract assets, unearned  For testing the Group’s computation the consolidated financial statements). sheet.
and deferred revenue balances. of the estimation of contract costs and We identified revenue recognition of fixed price onerous obligations, if any. We:
contracts where the percentage of completion is • assessed that the estimates of costs technology (‘IT’) specialists, as required:
 Assessed the IT environment in which
• there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud management personnel;
of revenues recognised considering the costs incurred with estimated costs revenue recognised;
• application of revenue recognition accounting estimating the remaining costs to reports generated by the system;
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from complete the contract;
respective projects. performed analytics to determine reasonableness of contract costs.

Other Information Management’s and Board of Directors’ of the consolidated financial statements that give Responsibilities for the Consolidated Financial a true and fair view and are free from material The Holding Company’s management and Board of Statements misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, which Directors are responsible for the other information.
but does not include the financial statements and our and presentation of these consolidated financial Company, as aforesaid.
of the Group in accordance with the accounting Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
other information identified above when it becomes and Board of Directors of the Companies included liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or has available and, in doing so, consider whether the in the Group are responsible for maintenance of no realistic alternative but to do so.
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be each Company and for preventing and detecting the financial reporting process of each Company.
materially misstated. frauds and other irregularities; the selection and application of appropriate accounting policies;

an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. relevant to the audit in order to design auditor’s report. However, future events or Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, audit procedures that are appropriate in the conditions may cause the Group to cease to but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in circumstances. Under Section 143(3)(i) of the continue as a going concern.
consolidated financial statements represent the reasonably be expected to influence the economic such controls.
decisions of users taken on the basis of these
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting that achieves fair presentation.
consolidated financial statements.
regarding the financial information of entities exercise professional judgment and maintain made by Management and Board of Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the consolidated financial statements. We also:
statements, whether due to fraud or error, on the audit evidence obtained, whether a consolidated financial statements. We remain design and perform audit procedures responsive material uncertainty exists related to events solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with those charged with sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for on the appropriateness of this assumption.
control. our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the internal control that we identify during our audit.

We also provide those charged with governance with “Annexure A” a statement on the matters for the purpose of preparation of the a statement that we have complied with relevant specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to consolidated financial statements.
ethical requirements regarding independence, and to the extent applicable.
our independence, and where applicable, related extent applicable, that : Section 133 of the Act.
safeguards.
our audit of the aforesaid consolidated by the Board of Directors of the period and are therefore the key audit matters.
incorporated in India is disqualified be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits examination of those books.
as on 31 March 2022 from being of such communication.
c) The consolidated balance sheet, the appointed as a director in terms of Report on Other Legal and Regulatory consolidated statement of profit and Section 164(2) of the Act.

incorporated in India and the operating d) (i) The management has represented (ii) The management has effectiveness of such controls, refer to that, to the best of its knowledge represented, that, to the best our separate report in ‘Annexure B’. and belief, no funds have been of its knowledge and belief, no advanced or loaned or invested funds have been received by B. With respect to the other matters to (either from borrowed funds the Holding Company or its be included in the Auditors’ Report in or share premium or any other subsidiary companies incorporated accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies sources or kind of funds) by the in India from any persons or (Audit and Auditor’s) Rules, 2014, in our Holding Company or its subsidiary entities, including foreign entities opinion and to the best of our information companies incorporated in India (“Funding Parties”), with the and according to the explanations given to to or in any other persons or understanding, whether recorded us: entities, including foreign entities in writing or otherwise, that the (“Intermediaries”), with the a) The consolidated financial statements Holding Company or its subsidiary understanding, whether recorded disclose the impact of pending companies incorporated in India in writing or otherwise, that the litigations as at 31 March 2022 on shall:
Intermediary shall:
companies incorporated in India during on behalf of the Ultimate the year ended 31 March 2022. Beneficiaries.

(iii) Based on such audit procedures C. With respect to the matter to be included the Act. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs as considered reasonable and in the Auditors’ report under Section has not prescribed other details under appropriate in the circumstances, 197(16) of the Act: Section 197(16) of the Act which are nothing has come to our notice required to be commented upon by us.

Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements of Tata Consultancy Services Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Referred to in paragraph 1 under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) (xxi) According to the information and explanations given to us, in respect of the following companies incorporated in India and included in the consolidated financial statements, the CARO report relating to them has not been issued by their auditors till the date of this audit report:

Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ subsidiary companies, have, in all material respects, and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and Report on the consolidated financial adequate internal financial controls with reference to completeness of the accounting records, and the statements of Tata Consultancy Services consolidated financial statements and such internal timely preparation of reliable financial information, Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 financial controls were operating effectively as at 31 as required under the Companies Act, 2013 March 2022, based on the internal financial controls (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”).
Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with (the “Guidance Note”).
such companies incorporated in India under the responsibilities include the design, implementation respects.

effectiveness. Our audit of internal financial for external purposes in accordance with generally financial statements, including the possibility of controls with reference to consolidated financial accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal collusion or improper management override of statements included obtaining an understanding financial controls with reference to consolidated controls, material misstatements due to error of internal financial controls with reference to financial statements includes those policies and or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, consolidated financial statements, assessing the procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of projections of any evaluation of the internal financial risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and controls with reference to consolidated financial evaluating the design and operating effectiveness fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of statements to future periods are subject to the risk of the internal controls based on the assessed risk. the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable that the internal financial controls with reference The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s assurance that transactions are recorded as to consolidated financial statements may become judgement, including the assessment of the risks of necessary to permit preparation of consolidated inadequate because of changes in conditions, or material misstatement of the consolidated financial financial statements in accordance with generally that the degree of compliance with the policies or statements, whether due to fraud or error. accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and procedures may deteriorate.
company’s assets that could have a material effect on Meaning of Internal Financial Controls with the consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Balance Sheet (` crore) Note As at As at March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 6,368 6,503 Other financial liabilities 8(h) 572 280 Employee benefit obligations 14 677 749 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 17 590 767 Unearned and deferred revenue 1,110 1,197 Total non-current liabilities 9,317 9,496 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 1,450 1,292 Trade payables 8(g) 8,045 7,860 NOTES FORMING PART OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other financial liabilities 8(h) 7,687 6,150 As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board Unearned and deferred revenue 3,635 3,650 For B S R & Co. LLP Rajesh Gopinathan N Ganapathy Subramaniam Chartered Accountants CEO and COO and Executive Director Other liabilities 10(f) 8,392 4,068 Firm’s registration no: Managing Director Provisions 10(g) 1,411 1,394 101248W/W-100022 Employee benefit obligations 14 3,810 3,498 Amit Somani Samir Seksaria Pradeep Manohar Gaitonde Income tax liabilities (net) 7,921 6,243 Partner CFO Company Secretary Total current liabilities 42,351 34,155 Membership No: 060154 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,41,514 1,30,759

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (` crore) (` crore) Note Year ended Year ended Note Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Revenue from operations 12 1,91,754 1,64,177 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (OCI) Other income 13 4,018 3,134 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss TOTAL INCOME 1,95,772 1,67,311
Remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans 261 (82) Expenses Net change in fair values of investments in equity (4) (2) Employee benefit expenses 14 1,07,554 91,814 shares carried at fair value through OCI Cost of equipment and software licences 15(a) 1,163 1,462 Income tax on items that will not be reclassified 19 11 Finance costs 16 784 637 subsequently to profit or loss Depreciation and amortisation expense 4,604 4,065 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit Other expenses 15(b) 29,980 24,355 or loss N et change in fair values of investments other than (516) 51 TOTAL EXPENSES 1,44,085 1,22,333
equity shares carried at fair value through OCI PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX 51,687 44,978 N et change in intrinsic value of derivatives designated (37) 14 Exceptional item as cash flow hedges Provision towards legal claim 20 - 1,218 N et change in time value of derivatives designated as (34) 53 cash flow hedges PROFIT BEFORE TAX 51,687 43,760

Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (` crore) Note Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Profit for the year attributable to:
38,449 32,562 Other comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
(95) 461 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to:
Firm’s registration no: Managing Director 101248W/W-100022

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL (` crore) Balance as at April 1, 2021 Changes in equity share capital Restated balance as at Changes in equity share capital Balance as at March 31, 2022 due to prior period errors April 1, 2021 during the year* 370 - 370 (4) 366 (` crore) Balance as at April 1, 2020 Changes in equity share capital Restated balance as at Changes in equity share capital Balance as at March 31, 2021 due to prior period errors April 1, 2020 during the year* 375 - 375 (5) 370
*Refer Note 8(m).

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (` crore) Reserves and surplus Items of other comprehensive income Equity Non- Total Capital Capital General Special Retained Statutory Investment Cash flow hedging reserve Foreign attributable to controlling equity reserve redemption reserve Economic Zone earnings reserve revaluation Intrinsic Time value currency shareholders interests reserve re-investment reserve value translation of the reserve reserve Company Balance as at April 1, 2020 75 431 27 1,594 78,810 375 796 45 (68) 1,666 83,751 623 84,374 Profit for the year - - - - 32,430 - - - - - 32,430 132 32,562 Other comprehensive income / (losses) - - - - (71) - 32 11 41 471 484 (23) 461 Total comprehensive income - - - - 32,359 - 32 11 41 471 32,914 109 33,023 Dividend - - - - (10,850) - - - - - (10,850) (57) (10,907) Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1 - - - - (31) - - - - - (31) - (31) Tax on liability towards buy-back of - - - - (3,726) - - - - - (3,726) - (3,726) equity shares1 Buy-back of equity shares1 - 5 - - (16,000) - - - - - (15,995) - (15,995) Transfer to Special Economic Zone - - - 5,058 (5,058) - - - - - - - - re-investment reserve Transfer from Special Economic Zone - - - (4,114) 4,114 - - - - - - - - re-investment reserve Transfer to reserves - - - - (32) 32 - - - - - - - Balance as at March 31, 2021 75 436 27 2,538 79,586 407 828 56 (27) 2,137 86,063 675 86,738 1Refer note 8(m).
Gain of `280 crore and loss of `71 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Total equity (primarily retained earnings) includes `1,759 crore and `1,366 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Nature and purpose of reserves (g) Investment revaluation reserve (a) Capital reserve This reserve represents the cumulative gains and losses arising on the revaluation of equity and debt instruments on the balance sheet date measured at fair value through The Group recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the other comprehensive income. The reserves accumulated will be reclassified to retained Group’s own equity instruments to capital reserve. earnings and profit and loss respectively, when such instruments are disposed.
nominal value of the shares so purchased is transferred to capital redemption reserve. entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses will be reclassified to statement The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the Companies of profit and loss in the period in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
Act, 2013.
from / to retained earnings for appropriation purposes. As the general reserve is created comprehensive income and is presented within equity in the foreign currency translation by a transfer from one component of equity to another and is not an item of other reserve.
comprehensive income, items included in the general reserve will not be reclassified subsequently to statement of profit and loss.
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Group as on the 101248W/W-100022 balance sheet date.

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows (` crore) (` crore) Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Components of cash and cash equivalents Repayment of lease liabilities (1,417) (1,336) Balances with banks Interest paid (698) (634) In current accounts 2,211 5,266 Dividend paid (13,317) (10,850) In deposit accounts 10,277 1,586 Dividend paid to non-controlling interests (58) (57) Cheques on hand -* -* Transfer of funds to buy-back escrow account (180) (160) Cash on hand -* 1 Transfer of funds from buy-back escrow account 162 160 Remittances in transit -* 5 Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note (49) (31) 12,488 6,858 8(m)) Tax on buy-back of equity shares (Refer note 8(m)) - (3,726) *Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
interests investments include `87 crore and `104 crore for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, held by trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 12,488 6,858 101248W/W-100022

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 1) Corporate information received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and liabilities Tata Consultancy Services Limited (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries have been classified as current and non-current as per the Group’s normal (collectively together with employee welfare trusts referred to as “the operating cycle. Based on the nature of services rendered to customers and Group”) provide IT services, consulting and business solutions and have been time elapsed between deployment of resources and the realisation in cash and partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses in their transformation journeys. The Group offers a consulting-led, cognitive powered, integrated cash equivalents of the consideration for such services rendered, the Group portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions. This is has considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
The statement of cash flows have been prepared under indirect method, recognised as a benchmark of excellence in software development.
The Board of Directors approved the consolidated financial statements for the subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value to be cash equivalents.
year ended March 31, 2022 and authorised for issue on April 11, 2022.
Indian Rupee (`). The functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is the These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance currency of the primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
on the date of the transaction. Foreign currency denominated monetary (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules as amended from time to time.
basis except for certain financial instruments and defined benefit plans which currencies are not retranslated.
period. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration The significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated given in exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be financial statements have been discussed in the respective notes.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 4) Basis of consolidation reserve in the statement of changes in equity. When a foreign operation is disposed off in its entirety or partially such that control, significant influence or The Company consolidates all entities which are controlled by it.
The Company establishes control when; it has power over the entity, is that foreign operation recognised in OCI is reclassified to statement of profit exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the and loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
5) Use of estimates and judgements relevant activities of the entity.
recognition and measurement principles of Ind AS requires management to commences until the date control ceases.
from the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses for as appropriate. the periods presented.
The financial statements of the Group companies are consolidated on a Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
line-by-line basis and all inter-company transactions, balances, income and Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. estimates are revised and future periods are affected.
Changes in the Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss consolidated financial statements:
estimate the future cost-to-completion of the contracts which is used to equity and attributed to shareholders of the Company.
determine degree of completion of the performance obligation.
such entities has been translated using weighted average exchange rates. end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in Translation adjustments have been reported as foreign currency translation depreciation expense in future periods.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (c) Impairment of goodwill (f) Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group estimates the value-in-use of the cash generating units (CGUs) The Group estimates the provisions that have present obligations as a result based on the future cash flows after considering current economic conditions of past events and it is probable that outflow of resources will be required and trends, estimated future operating results and growth rate and anticipated to settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end of each future economic and regulatory conditions. The estimated cash flows are reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.
developed using internal forecasts. The discount rates used for the CGUs The Group uses significant judgements to assess contingent liabilities.
Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible obligation returns of comparable companies.
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the cannot be made. Contingent assets are neither recognised nor disclosed in the Discounted Cash Flow model. The inputs to these models are taken from consolidated financial statements.
requires the Group to use assumptions. These assumptions have been financial instruments.
explained under employee benefits note.
is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be (including anticipated renewals) and the applicable discount rate.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and periods covered 6) Recent pronouncements by an option to terminate the lease if the Group is reasonably certain not to Ministry of Corporate Affairs (“MCA”) notifies new standard or amendments exercise that option. In assessing whether the Group is reasonably certain to to the existing standards under Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) exercise an option to extend a lease, or not to exercise an option to terminate Rules as issued from time to time. On March 23, 2022, MCA amended the a lease, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances that create an Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022, applicable economic incentive for the Group to exercise the option to extend the lease, from April 1, 2022, as below:
Ind AS 103 – Reference to Conceptual Framework lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable period of a lease.
The Group has taken into account all the possible impacts of COVID-19 of Ind AS 103. The Group does not expect the amendment to have any in preparation of these consolidated financial statements, including but significant impact in its financial statements.
statements and believes that the impact of COVID-19 is not material to of its property, plant and equipment in its financial statements.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements would be direct labour, materials) or an allocation of other costs that relate The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured either at directly to fulfilling contracts. The amendment is essentially a clarification and fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate share of the the Group does not expect the amendment to have any significant impact in acquiree’s identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made its financial statements. on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial Ind AS 109 – Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2021) recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in The amendment clarifies which fees an entity includes when it applies the equity of subsidiaries.
amounts of assets and liabilities of the acquired entity is recorded in The amendments remove the illustration of the reimbursement of leasehold shareholders’ equity.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a the amendment to have any significant impact in its financial statements.
statement of profit and loss as incurred. The acquiree’s identifiable assets, recognition of financial asset or financial liability.
liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
exceed the cost of acquisition, after reassessing the fair values of the net entity. The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the assets and contingent liabilities, the excess is recognised as capital reserve. Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents Financial liabilities The Group considers all highly liquid investments, which are readily convertible Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest into known amounts of cash that are subject to an insignificant risk of change method.
Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost if these by the Group are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue cost.
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive options and futures contracts as hedge instruments in respect of foreign income if these financial assets are held within a business whose objective is exchange risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
the Company and its subsidiaries which are approved by their respective and selling financial assets.
The Group has made an irrevocable election to present subsequent such financial derivatives consistent with the risk management strategy of changes in the fair value of equity investments not held for trading in other the Company and its subsidiaries.
comprehensive income.
Financial assets are measured at fair value through profit or loss unless they economic relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive based on the currency, amount and timing of their respective cash flows.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements expected to occur, then the amounts that have been accumulated in • Instruments not in hedging relationship other equity are immediately reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in The Group enters into contracts that are effective as hedges from an the statement of profit and loss.
The effective portion of change in the fair value of the designated change in the fair value of such instrument is recognised in the statement hedging instrument is recognised in the other comprehensive income and of profit and loss.
accumulated under the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
gain or loss is recognised immediately in the statement of profit and loss the credit risk on the financial asset has increased significantly since initial when the hedge becomes ineffective. recognition.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (a) Investments Investments – Current Investments consist of the following: (` crore) Investments – Non-current As at As at (` crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 As at As at Investments carried at fair value through March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 profit or loss Investments designated at fair value through Mutual fund units (quoted) 1,874 4,904 OCI Investments carried at fair value through OCI Fully paid equity shares (unquoted) Government bonds and securities (quoted) 25,667 23,670 Mozido LLC 76 73 Corporate bonds (quoted) 1,242 450 FCM LLC 57 55 Investments carried at amortised cost Taj Air Limited 19 19 Certificate of deposits (quoted) 99 - Philippine Dealing System Holdings Corporation 7 7 Corporate bonds (quoted) 10 - Less: Impairment in value of investments (123) (116) Commercial papers (quoted) 381 136 Investments carried at amortised cost Treasury bills (quoted) 989 - Government bonds and securities (quoted) 187 165 30,262 29,160 Corporate bonds (quoted) - 10 Investments – Current includes `100 crore and `166 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 223 213 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
and 2021, respectively, pertains to trusts held for specified purposes. and with manager to the buy-back amounting to `3,560 crore and `1,650 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows: The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through (` crore) OCI is as follows:
Net gain / (loss) arising on revaluation of (516) 51 Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
Equity instruments designated at fair value through OCI are as follows: (b) Trade receivables - Billed (` crore) Trade receivables - Billed (unsecured) consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2021 is as follows: is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Trade receivables - Billed – Current Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2021 is as (c) Cash and cash equivalents follows: Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following:
– credit impaired Disputed trade receivables – - 5 - - 15 5 25 *Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Disputed trade receivables - - - - - - - March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts held for specified purposes.
Disputed trade receivables – - - - - - 7 7 (d) Other balances with banks credit impaired Other balances with banks consist of the following:
investments, margin money for derivative contracts, unclaimed dividends and balance in escrow account for buy-back of equity shares.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (e) Loans (f) Other financial assets Loans (unsecured) consist of the following: Other financial assets consist of the following:
Less: Allowance on loans and advances to (23) (17) Interest receivable includes `34 crore and `40 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, employees respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.
6,445 11,472 Inter-corporate deposits placed with financial institutions yield fixed interest rate.
Inter-corporate deposits include `978 crore and `952 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, pertaining to trusts and TCS Foundation held for specified purposes.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (g) Trade payables (h) Other financial liabilities Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows: Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Others 233 280 MSME* - - - - - -
Others 1,187 778 22 8 52 2,047 572 280 Disputed dues - MSME* - - - - - - Disputed dues - Others - - - - 32 32 Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, 1,187 778 22 8 84 2,079 2022 and 2021, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited Accrued expenses 5,966 (merged with the Company) which, on refund by tax authorities, is payable to the seller.
7,860
*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (i) Financial instruments by category The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2021 is as The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
within 36 months. Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `11,256 crore, with original maturity period within 36 months.
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, approximate the fair value due to their nature.
at amortised cost is `1,672 crore and `332 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (j) Fair value hierarchy (` crore) The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and Corporate bonds 1,252 - - 1,252 consists of the following three levels: Commercial papers 381 - - 381 Treasury bills 990 990 • Level 1 - Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for Fair value of foreign exchange derivative - 388 - 388 identical assets or liabilities.
observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are As at March 31, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total they based on available market data.
approximate their fair value because there is a wide range of possible fair value Equity shares - - 38 38 measurements and the cost represents estimate of fair value within that range.
value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair Commercial papers 136 - - 136 value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value measurement of financial assets is as follows: The following are outstanding currency options contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges:
Translation exchange difference 2 (3) The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash Balance at the end of the year 36 93 flow hedges is as follows:
effective portion of cash flow hedges a bank.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The Group has entered into derivative instruments not in hedging relationship by (l) Financial risk management way of foreign exchange forward, currency options and futures contracts. As at The Group is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange March 31, 2022 and 2021, the notional amount of outstanding contracts aggregated rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely impact to `46,392 crore and `37,615 crore, respectively, and the respective fair value of these contracts have a net gain of `158 crore and `242 crore. the fair value of its financial instruments. The Group has a risk management policy which covers risks associated with the financial assets and liabilities.
financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the financial March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
performance of the Group.
changes. The Group’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2022.
foreign currency exchange rate risk.
• Foreign currency exchange rate risk income on account of appreciation / depreciation of the underlying foreign currencies:
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 more than one currency or where assets / liabilities are denominated in 10% Appreciation of the underlying foreign (387) (306) a currency other than the functional currency of the respective entities.
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign 2,034 1,906 operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from fluctuations in currencies exchange rates in those countries.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements major foreign currencies may impact the Group’s revenue in international The following table sets forth information relating to unhedged foreign business. currency exposure as at March 31, 2021:
functional currencies of Tata Consultancy Services Limited and its Group’s profit before taxes by approximately `320 crore for the year subsidiaries. ended March 31, 2021.
investments. Hence, the Group is not significantly exposed to interest loss and other comprehensive income and equity. Further the exposure rate risk.
or service debt according to the contractual terms or obligations. Credit risk currency exposure as at March 31, 2022:
Net financial assets 2,900 165 84 1,234 for credit.
having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating agencies. Bank deposits ended March 31, 2022.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements include an amount of `6,727 crore held with four Indian banks having high `190 crore respectively. The reconciliation of allowance for doubtful credit rating which are individually in excess of 10% or more of the Group’s trade receivables is as follows:
(` crore) instruments of the Group result in material concentration of credit risk.
sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per contract assets as at March 31, 2022 and 2021.
• Geographic concentration of credit risk from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities as and when they fall due.
The tables below provide details regarding the contractual maturities of allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
significant financial liabilities as at:
Other financial liabilities 7,582 343 231 5 8,161 allocated based on the location of the customers.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) The Company’s objective for capital management is to maximise shareholder March 31, 2021 Due in Due in Due in 3rd Due after Total value, safeguard business continuity and support the growth of the Company.
Non-derivative financial liabilities plans and long-term and other strategic investment plans. The funding Trade payables 7,860 - - - 7,860 requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated.
Lease liabilities 1,742 1,601 3,325 3,509 10,177 The Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
Authorised over par value of shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of `4,192 crore 460,05,00,000 equity shares of `1 each 460 460 were offset from retained earnings.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements II. Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each. aggregate shares in the Company Each shareholder is eligible for one vote per share held and carry a right to As at As at dividend. The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors is subject to the March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except Equity shares in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding company 264,43,17,117 266,91,25,829 of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding. % of shareholding 72.27% 72.16% III. Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates V. Equity shares movement during 5 years preceding March 31, 2022 (` crore) As at As at • Equity shares issued as bonus March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus Equity shares shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained earnings Holding company amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to 264,43,17,117 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 264 267 `106 crore in the quarter ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to an ordinary 266,91,25,829 equity shares) are held by Tata Sons resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders through Private Limited postal ballot.
Limited* capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were 46,798 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 46,798 equity - - extinguished on March 29, 2022.
264 267 extinguished on January 6, 2021.
*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate 9) Leases amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the total paid up equity share A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for extinguished on September 26, 2018.
consideration.
lease separately from non-lease components of the contract and allocates extinguished on June 7, 2017.
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters standalone price of the non-lease components.
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
No. of shares % of total No. of shares % of total year plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever shares shares there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that lease term. In case of a finance lease, finance income is recognised over the rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on Group uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably similar the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Group is an intermediate characteristics, the Group, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the sub-lease incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease or the incremental borrowing separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to payments, variable lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the Group of a purchase option where the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term operating lease.
reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect consideration in the contract.
the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Group is as follows:
Leasehold land 100 774 of profit and loss.
Software licences 145 133 basis over the lease term.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) The Group incurred `277 crore and `352 crore for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of Additions Net carrying low-value assets.
Leasehold land - 682 March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, including cash outflow for short term and low value leases.
Computer equipment 102 101 of lease liabilities. The present value of future cash outflows for such extension periods is `773 crore and `708 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
Office equipment 1 9 to conduct its business in the ordinary course. The Group does not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per the contract.
10) Non-financial assets and non-financial liabilities Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
Buildings 1,465 1,453 freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.
Office equipment 3 4 values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.
Interest on lease liabilities is `519 crore and `523 crore for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The estimated useful lives are as mentioned below: Property, plant and equipment with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher Type of asset Useful lives of the fair value less cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an Buildings 20 years individual asset basis unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are Leasehold improvements Lease term largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable Plant and equipment 10 years amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
Electrical installations 4-10 years profit and loss.
Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction and installation are complete and the asset is ready for its intended use.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
Total 11,979
*`2,345 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2022.
Total 12,036
*`2,565 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2021.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Capital work-in-progress CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication for impairment. The financial • Capital work-in-progress ageing projections basis which the future cash flows have been estimated consider Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
691 102 39 373 1,205 the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2021 is as follows: Goodwill consists of the following:
• Project execution plans are modulated basis capacity requirement assessment on an annual basis and all the projects are executed as per rolling annual plan.
any probable scenario in which the recoverable amount of the CGU would of goodwill is less than its carrying amount.
decrease below its carrying amount.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The remaining amount of goodwill of `1,141 crore and `1,138 crore as If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, (relating to different CGUs its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to individually immaterial) has been evaluated based on the cash flow forecasts of its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of the related CGUs and the recoverable amounts of these CGUs exceeded their profit and loss.
carrying amounts. Intangible assets consist of the following:
agreement and intangibles amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.
Intangible assets consist of rights under licensing agreement and software Cost as at April 1, 2021 740 122 862 licences and customer-related intangibles.
Following table summarises the nature of intangibles and their estimated Disposals / Derecognised (42) - (42) useful lives:
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of its Translation exchange difference 2 2 4 economic useful life.
those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) (d) Other assets Rights under Customer- Total Other assets consist of the following:
Net carrying amount as at 475 5 480 Advances to related parties, considered good, March 31, 2021 comprise:
The estimated amortisation for the years subsequent to March 31, 2022 is as Voltas Limited -* 2 follows:
2024 403
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Other assets – Current Non-current – Others includes advance of `271 crore and `369 crore towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2022 and (` crore) 2021, respectively.
Advance to suppliers 202 157 the consolidated statement of profit and loss. Refer note 12 for changes in Advance to related parties 8 10 contract assets.
Prepaid rent 18 28 b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and d) Finished goods.
includes direct material and labour cost and a proportion of manufacturing Considered doubtful overheads.
Advance to suppliers 2 3 Inventories consist of the following:
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 comprise:
Tata Sons Private Limited 7 7 20 8
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (f) Other liabilities 11) Other equity Other equity consist of the following:
Other liabilities consist of the following:
Special Economic Zone re-investment Provisions consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) (` crore) As at As at As at As at March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Remeasurement of defined employee benefit 280 (71) Investment revaluation reserve plans Opening balance 828 796 Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1 (49) (31) Change during the year (net) (340) 32 Tax on buy-back of equity shares1 (4,192) (3,726) 488 828 Buy-back of equity shares1 (17,996) (15,995) Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 8(k)) Transfer from Special Economic Zone 4,658 4,114 Opening balance 29 (23) re-investment reserve Change during the year (net) (55) 52 Transfer from general reserve 27 - (26) 29 1,00,641 95,531 Foreign currency translation reserve Less: Appropriations Opening balance 2,137 1,666 Dividend on equity shares 13,317 10,850 Change during the year (net) 52 471 Transfer to capital redemption reserve1 4 5 2,189 2,137 Transfer to Special Economic Zone 9,407 5,058 re-investment reserve 88,773 86,063 Transfer to / (from) statutory reserve (245) 32 1Refer note 8(m).
Transfer (to) / from retained earnings (245) 32 integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and solutions.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Group expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. Group recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration when it is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it is • Revenue from time and material and job contracts is recognised on acting as an agent.
recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight lined over customers.
the period of performance.
involves judgement to determine the deliverables and the ability of the revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.
customer to benefit independently from such deliverables.
incentives. The transaction price is also adjusted for the effects of the time revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct In accordance with Ind AS 37, the Group recognises an onerous contract performance obligations. provision when the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc. revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for.
Contract fulfilment costs are generally expensed as incurred except for certain The Group disaggregates revenue from contracts with customers by nature of software licence costs which meet the criteria for capitalisation. Such costs are services, industry verticals and geography.
amortised over the contractual period or useful life of licence, whichever is Revenue disaggregation by nature of services is as follows:
Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical and geography has been included are billings in excess of revenues. in segment information (Refer note 19).
payable within contractually agreed credit period. obligations, along with the broad time band for the expected time to recognise those revenues, the Group has applied the practical expedient in Ind AS 115.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
transferred to customer typically involving time and material, outcome based March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 and event based contracts.
Translation exchange difference 55 63 excluded from the amount mentioned above.
Balance at the end of the year 4,745 4,847 Changes in contract assets are as follows:
Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows:
The reduction towards variable consideration comprises of volume discounts, service Balance at the end of the year 4,419 4,080 level credits, etc.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 13) Other income 14) Employee benefits Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Defined benefit plans Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
Net gain on disposal of property, plant and 23 13 termination benefits.
Other income 87 56 scheme.
4,018 3,134 Interest income comprise:
Interest on financial assets carried at amortised 546 587 benefit plans.
Other interest (including interest on tax 4 18 Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as expense when refunds) employees have rendered services entitling them to such benefits.
Dividend from mutual fund units and other 4 8 than Company managed fund) and foreign defined contribution plans to its investments employees which are treated as defined contribution plans.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Short-term employee benefits Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:
(` crore) services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date.
3,810 3,498 Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
through a trust. Trustees administer contributions made to the trust. Certain overseas subsidiaries of the Company also provide for retirement benefit pension plans in accordance with the local laws.
The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Net periodic gratuity / pension cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
Actual return on plan assets 330 - 52 - 382 388 - 102 - 490 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) Year ended March 31, 2021 Domestic plans Domestic plans Foreign plans Foreign plans Total Funded Unfunded Funded Unfunded Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in demographic 24 - 1 (2) 23 assumptions Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (32) - 118 19 105 Actuarial (gains) and losses arising from changes in experience 143 2 20 1 166 adjustments Remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability 135 2 139 18 294 Remeasurement - return on plan assets excluding amount included in (119) - (93) - (212) interest income 16 2 46 18 82 The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations 2-16 years 3-31 years 3-18 years 3-65 years Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India.
is expected to contribute `57 crore to defined benefit plan obligations funds for the year ending March 31, 2023 comprising domestic component of `6 crore and foreign component of `51 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements The significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that benefit obligations are discount rate and expected salary increase. The applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the sensitivity analysis below have been determined based on reasonably possible balance sheet.
Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the period, while holding all other assumptions constant.
If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows: this study.
(` crore) as follows:
investments and distribute the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is assumptions may be correlated.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements contribution is transferred to Government administered pension fund. The The principal assumptions used in determining the present value obligations of contributions made by the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are interest guarantee under the deterministic approach are as follows:
recognised as an expense in profit and loss under employee benefit expenses.
receive benefits under the provident fund plan in which both the employee March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards provident fund.
recognises such contributions as an expense when incurred. The Group has The details of fund and plan assets are given below: no further obligation beyond its monthly contribution.
As at As at Fund.
Net excess / (shortfall) - - March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution plans.
The plan assets have been primarily invested in Government securities and corporate bonds.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 15) Cost recognition (b) Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following:
29,980 24,355 Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Finance costs consist of the following:
1,163 1,462
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 17) Income taxes temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount, except when the deferred income tax arises from the Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. Current and deferred taxes a business combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to loss at the time of the transaction.
Current income taxes can be utilised.
on worldwide income after taking credit for tax relief available for export income tax asset to be utilised.
operations in Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
for set off against the Indian income tax liability of the Company’s worldwide will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
income.
based on the tax laws applicable to each subsidiary in the respective differences are expected to be received or settled.
jurisdiction in which it operates.
arising in the same tax jurisdiction and where the relevant tax paying unit bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis.
levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Deferred tax assets include Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) paid in accordance The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at Indian statutory income with the tax laws in India, to the extent it would be available for set off against tax rate to income tax expense reported in consolidated statement of profit future current income tax liability. Accordingly, MAT is recognised as deferred and loss is as follows:
conditions. From April 1, 2011, profits from units set up under SEZ scheme are subject to Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT).

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
ended March 31, 2022 are as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:
comprehensive income business losses can be carried forward indefinitely unless there is a substantial Lease liabilities 345 (84) - - - 261 change in the ownership.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements accounting standards. These unexpired business losses will expire based on the Direct tax contingencies year of origination as follows:
The Company and its subsidiaries have ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and in some of the other jurisdictions where they operate.
Thereafter 116 of TCS e-Serve Limited.
The Group periodically receives notices and inquiries from income tax Under the Income-tax Act, 1961, Tata Consultancy Services Limited is liable authorities related to the Group’s operations in the jurisdictions it operates in.
carried forward for a period of 15 years and can be set off against the future any consequent income tax claims or demands by the income tax authorities tax liabilities. MAT is recognised as a deferred tax asset only when the asset will not succeed on ultimate resolution.
vary by state. In United Kingdom, the statute of limitation generally applies to fiscal 2018 and earlier.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 18) Earnings per share revenue of the segment or manpower efforts. All other expenses which are not attributable or allocable to segments have been disclosed as unallocable Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable expenses.
segments. Allocation of such assets and liabilities is not practicable and any potentially dilutive securities in any of the years presented.
Year ended Year ended and liabilities have not been identified to any of the reportable segments.
Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 38,327 32,430 of the Company (` crore) 2021, is as follows:
and amortisation Products.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Year ended March 31, 2021 (` crore) (` crore) Banking, Manufacturing Retail and Communication, Life Others Total Year ended Year ended Financial Consumer Media and Sciences March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Services and Business Technology and Europe Insurance Healthcare United Kingdom 30,399 25,659 Revenue from 65,634 15,950 25,589 27,077 16,968 12,959 1,64,177 operations Continental Europe 30,743 26,687 Segment result 18,681 4,483 7,151 8,010 5,253 2,968 46,546 Asia Pacific 16,927 15,830 Total unallocable 5,920 India 9,805 8,449 expenses* Middle East and Africa 3,808 3,274 Operating income 40,626 1,91,754 1,64,177 Other income 3,134 Profit before tax 43,760 Geographical non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use Tax expense 11,198 assets, goodwill, other intangible assets, income tax assets and other Profit for the year 32,562 non-current assets) are allocated based on the location of the assets.
Depreciation 4,065 and amortisation Information regarding geographical non-current assets is as follows:
Latin America 852 840 Information regarding geographical revenue is as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Information about major customers In addition to above, in October 2014, Epic Systems Corporation (referred to as Epic) filed a legal claim against the Company in the Court No single customer represents 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue for of Western District Madison, Wisconsin alleging unauthorised access to the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021.
filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also property, plant and equipment.
damages considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and Refer note 17.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements damages, to no more than `1,060 crore (US $140 million). On • Letter of comfort March 21, 2022, Supreme Court denied Epic’s petition seeking review The Company has given letter of comfort to banks for credit facilities of the order. The Company will continue to pursue all legal options availed by its subsidiaries. As per the terms of letter of comfort, the available in the matter. Considering all the facts and various legal Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or precedence, on a conservative and prudent basis, the Company provided indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and `1,218 crore (US $165 million) towards this legal claim in its statement financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the of profit and loss for three month period ended September 30, 2020.
subsidiary.
This was presented as an “exceptional item” in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could Pursuant to US Court procedures, a Letter of Credit has been made be claimed by counter parties.
in order to stay execution of the judgement pending post-appeal proceedings and conclusion.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 21) Statement of net assets, profit and loss and other comprehensive income attributable to owners and non-controlling interests Name of the entity Country of % of % of Net assets, i.e. total assets Share in Profit or loss Share in other Share in total incorporation voting voting minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income power power As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of total Amount as at as at consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) comprehensive (` crore) March March net assets profit or loss other income 31, 2022 31, 2021 comprehensive income Tata Consultancy India - - 80.18 77,173 87.61 38,187 252.53 (250) 87.24 37,937 Services Limited Subsidiaries (held directly) Indian APTOnline Limited India 89.00 89.00 0.11 110 0.04 18 1.01 (1) 0.04 17 MP Online Limited India 89.00 89.00 0.13 121 0.04 18 1.01 (1) 0.04 17 C-Edge Technologies India 51.00 51.00 0.33 313 0.17 73 - - 0.17 73 Limited MahaOnline Limited India 74.00 74.00 0.08 80 - 1 - - - 1 TCS e-Serve India 100.00 100.00 0.16 156 0.20 88 - - 0.20 88 International Limited TCS Foundation India 100.00 100.00 1.52 1,467 0.87 379 - - 0.87 379 Foreign Diligenta Limited U.K. 100.00 100.00 1.46 1,402 0.02 8 (15.15) 15 0.05 23 Tata Consultancy Canada 100.00 100.00 0.87 834 1.11 484 - - 1.11 484 Services Canada Inc.
Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Name of the entity Country of % of % of Net assets, i.e. total assets Share in Profit or loss Share in other Share in total incorporation voting voting minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income power power As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of total Amount as at as at consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) comprehensive (` crore) March March net assets profit or loss other income 31, 2022 31, 2021 comprehensive income Tata Consultancy Belgium 100.00 100.00 0.44 426 0.22 98 - - 0.23 98 Services Belgium Tata Consultancy Germany 100.00 100.00 0.66 631 0.77 334 (9.09) 9 0.79 343 Services Deutschland GmbH Tata Consultancy Netherlands 100.00 100.00 2.74 2,636 1.23 536 - - 1.23 536 Services Netherlands BV Tata Consultancy Sweden 100.00 100.00 0.92 887 0.36 157 - - 0.36 157 Services Sverige AB TCS FNS Pty Limited Australia 100.00 100.00 0.15 147 0.09 41 - - 0.09 41 TCS Iberoamerica SA Uruguay 100.00 100.00 1.74 1,678 1.65 718 - - 1.65 718 Tata Consultancy South Africa 100.00 100.00 0.06 56 0.08 35 - - 0.08 35 Services (Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
Tata Consultancy Qatar 100.00 100.00 0.03 33 - 1 - - - 1 Services Qatar L.L.C.
TCS e-Serve America, U.S.A. - 100.00 - - - - - - - - Inc.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Name of the entity Country of % of % of Net assets, i.e. total assets Share in Profit or loss Share in other Share in total incorporation voting voting minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income power power As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of total Amount as at as at consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) comprehensive (` crore) March March net assets profit or loss other income 31, 2022 31, 2021 comprehensive income Tata Consultancy China 93.20 93.20 0.27 260 0.03 14 - - 0.03 14 Services (China) Co., Ltd.
Tata Consultancy Japan 66.00 66.00 1.53 1,476 0.60 263 - - 0.60 263 Services Japan, Ltd.
Tata Consultancy Philippines 100.00 100.00 0.12 113 0.12 54 (2.02) 2 0.13 56 Services (Philippines) Inc.
Tata Consultancy Italy 100.00 100.00 0.08 74 0.04 17 - - 0.04 17 Services Italia s.r.l.
Tata Consultancy Switzerland 100.00 100.00 0.73 705 0.47 206 (48.48) 48 0.58 254 Services Switzerland Ltd.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Name of the entity Country of % of % of Net assets, i.e. total assets Share in Profit or loss Share in other Share in total incorporation voting voting minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income power power As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of total Amount as at as at consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) comprehensive (` crore) March March net assets profit or loss other income 31, 2022 31, 2021 comprehensive income Tata Consultancy Spain 100.00 100.00 0.07 70 0.04 19 - - 0.04 19 Services De Espana S.A.
Saudi Desert Rose Netherlands 100.00 - - 2 0.08 34 - - 0.08 34 Holding B.V.
Services (South Africa) (PTY) Ltd.
TCS Financial Solutions China 100.00 100.00 0.04 41 - 1 - - - 1 Beijing Co., Ltd.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Name of the entity Country of % of % of Net assets, i.e. total assets Share in Profit or loss Share in other Share in total incorporation voting voting minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income power power As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of total Amount as at as at consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) comprehensive (` crore) March March net assets profit or loss other income 31, 2022 31, 2021 comprehensive income TCS Uruguay S.A. Uruguay 100.00 100.00 0.12 117 0.24 104 - - 0.24 104 Tata Consultancy Argentina 100.00 100.00 - 2 - 1 - - - 1 Services Argentina S.A.
Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V.
Tata Consultancy Chile 100.00 100.00 0.40 384 0.20 86 - - 0.20 86 Services Chile S.A.
Tata Consultancy Guatemala 100.00 - 0.01 12 0.01 4 - - 0.01 4 Services Guatemala, S.A.
TATASOLUTION Ecuador 100.00 100.00 0.11 104 0.11 48 (1.03) 1 0.12 49 CENTER S.A.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Name of the entity Country of % of % of Net assets, i.e. total assets Share in Profit or loss Share in other Share in total incorporation voting voting minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income power power As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of Amount As % of total Amount as at as at consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) consolidated (` crore) comprehensive (` crore) March March net assets profit or loss other income 31, 2022 31, 2021 comprehensive income MP Online Limited (13) (2) - (2) C-Edge Technologies (153) (36) - (36) Limited MahaOnline Limited (21) - - - Foreign subsidiaries Tata Consultancy (18) (1) (2) (3) Services (China) Co., Ltd.
Tata Consultancy (490) (81) 34 (47) Services Japan, Ltd.
TOTAL (707) (122) 32 (90) TOTAL 89,139 38,327 (63) 38,264
Notes:
1. Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C. renamed as Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C..
2. W12 Studios Limited renamed as Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited.
3. Equity stake increased to 100% in Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia on acquisition of Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. w.e.f. May 26, 2021.
4. Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD in Bulgaria on August 31, 2021.
5. TCS Iberoamerica SA incorporated a subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A. in Guatemala on September 1, 2021.
6. Postbank Systems AG renamed as TCS Technology Solutions AG.
7. TCS e-Serve America, Inc. liquidated w.e.f. December 29, 2021.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 22) Related party transactions The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Group’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Group routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
Transactions and balances with its own subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
Transactions with related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:
17 287 776 - 1,080 Balances payable to related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` crore) As at March 31, 2021 Tata Sons Subsidiaries of Associates / joint ventures Other related Total Private Limited Tata Sons Private of Tata Sons Private Limited parties Limited and their subsidiaries Trade payables, unearned and deferred revenue, other financial liabilities and 175 299 394 - 868 other liabilities Commitments and guarantees - 10 270 - 280 Material related party transactions are as follows: Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:
(` crore) remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
Trade receivables and contract assets and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / Jaguar Land Rover Limited 379 290 premium paid are not available.

Notes forming part of Consolidated Financial Statements 23) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `12 crore per equity share towards interim dividends for the year ended and `10 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. March 31, 2021.
invited suggestions from stakeholders which are under consideration by the approximately `8,050 crore.

Independent Auditor’s Report Standalone Financial To the Members of Basis for Opinion Tata Consultancy Services Limited Statements We conducted our audit in accordance with the Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Standards on Auditing (SAs) specified under Section Statements 143(10) of the Act. Our responsibilities under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Opinion Responsibilities for the Audit of the Standalone We have audited the standalone financial statements Financial Statements section of our report. We of Tata Consultancy Services Limited (hereinafter are independent of the Company in accordance referred to as “the Company”), which comprise the with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2022, Chartered Accountants of India together with the and the Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit (including other comprehensive income), Standalone of the standalone financial statements under the Statement of Changes in Equity and Standalone provisions of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and Statement of Cash Flows for the year then ended, we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in and notes to the standalone financial statements, accordance with these requirements and the Code of including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information Ethics. We believe that the audit evidence obtained (hereinafter referred to as “the standalone financial by us is sufficient and appropriate to provide a statements”). basis for our opinion on the standalone financial statements.
equity and its cash flows for the year ended on that on these matters.
date.
IIInnnttteeegggrrraaattteeeddd AAAnnnnnnuuuaaalll RRReeepppooorrrttt 222000222111---222222 Standalone Financial Statements | 318

Description of Key Audit Matter Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter • these contracts may involve onerous • On selected specific and statistical samples Revenue recognition– Fixed price contracts obligations which requires critical assessment of contracts, we tested that the revenue of foreseeable losses to be made by the recognized is in accordance with the revenue The Company inter alia engages in Fixed-price Our audit procedures included the following:
per the input method based on the Company’s the Company for recording and computing contracts are recognised on the balance transaction price;
unearned and deferred revenue balances. estimation of contract costs and onerous We identified revenue recognition of fixed price obligations, if any. We:
• there is an inherent risk and presumed fraud the business systems operate and tested management personnel;
standard (Ind AS 115, Revenue from reports generated by the system; estimating the remaining costs to Contracts with customers) is complex and  Tested the controls pertaining to complete the contract;
performed analytics to determine reasonableness of contract costs.

In preparing the standalone financial statements, the Other Information Management’s and Board of Directors’ Management and Board of Directors are responsible Responsibilities for the Standalone Financial The Company’s Management and Board of Directors for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as Statements are responsible for the other information. The other a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters information comprises the information included in The Company’s Management and Board of Directors related to going concern and using the going the Company’s annual report, but does not include are responsible for the matters stated in Section concern basis of accounting unless the Board of the financial statements and our auditors’ report 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation Directors either intends to liquidate the Company thereon. The Company’s annual report is expected of these standalone financial statements that give or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative to be made available to us after the date of this a true and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/ but to do so.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements with the accounting principles generally accepted overseeing the Company’s financial reporting does not cover the other information and we will not in India, including the Indian Accounting Standards process.
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
standalone financial statements or our knowledge appropriate accounting policies; making judgments whether due to fraud or error, and to issue obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
laws and regulations. fraud or error. decisions of users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.

As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we accounting estimates and related disclosures We communicate with those charged with exercise professional judgment and maintain made by the Management and Board of governance regarding, among other matters, the professional skepticism throughout the audit. We Directors. planned scope and timing of the audit and significant also: audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in • Conclude on the appropriateness of the internal control that we identify during our audit.
our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material doubt on the Company’s ability to continue our independence, and where applicable, related misstatement resulting from fraud is higher as a going concern. If we conclude that a safeguards.
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our
• Obtain an understanding of internal control period and are therefore the key audit matters.
relevant to the audit in order to design We describe these matters in our auditor’s report obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report.
Act, we are also responsible for expressing our circumstances, we determine that a matter should concern.
standalone financial statements in place and the content of the standalone financial statements, be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits operating effectiveness of such controls. including the disclosures, and whether the of such communication.
policies used and the reasonableness of that achieves fair presentation.

Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Statement of Cash Flows dealt with by opinion and to the best of our information Requirements this Report are in agreement with the and according to the explanations given to books of account. us:
specified in paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Order, to statements - Refer Note 19 to the the extent applicable. e) On the basis of the written standalone financial statements.
a) We have sought and obtained all the none of the directors is disqualified material foreseeable losses.
f) With respect to the adequacy of and Protection Fund by the Company.

with the understanding, whether in writing or otherwise, that the (C) With respect to the matter to be included recorded in writing or otherwise, Company shall: in the Auditor’s Report under Section that the Intermediary shall: 197(16) of the Act:
• provide any guarantee, laid down under Section 197 of the Act.
197(16) of the Act which are required to Beneficiaries.
(iii) Based on such audit procedures be commented upon by us.
entities, including foreign entities clause (d) (i) and (d) (ii) contain any (“Funding Parties”), with the material mis-statement.
11 April 2022 UDIN: 22060154AGVEXH5342 Act.

Annexure A to the Independent Auditor’s the Company and the nature of its assets. (ii) (a) The inventory has been physically verified report on the standalone financial statements No material discrepancies were noticed on by the management during the year.
(i) (a) (A) The Company has maintained proper properties where the Company is the inventory.
of our examination of the records of the such banks are in agreement with the both during the year.
Company, the Company has a regular books of account of the Company.
any other parties during the year. The Company reasonable having regard to the size of thereunder.

has granted loans to one company during the facie, not prejudicial to the interest of the without specifying any terms or period of year, details of the loan is stated in sub-clause Company. repayment.
of our examination of the records of of the records, the Company has not given any the year.
and explanations given to us, the repayments or receipts have been regular. any guarantee or security as specified under Company has not granted any loans to Section 186 of the Companies Act, 2013.
on by us and as per the information Company, there is no overdue amount for investments made.
explanations given to us and on the basis Particulars Amount is not applicable.
(f) According to the information and (b) According to the information and 3(vi) of the Order is not applicable.

(viii) According to the information and explanations Company, we report that no funds have Company, the Company has not made any given to us and on the basis of our examination been raised on short-term basis by the preferential allotment or private placement of the records of the Company, the Company Company. Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(d) of the of shares or fully or partly convertible has not surrendered or disclosed any Order is not applicable. debentures during the year. Accordingly, transactions, previously unrecorded as income (e) According to the information and clause 3(x)(b) of the Order is not applicable.
Company, the Company did not have any defined under the Companies Act, 2013. the Company has been noticed or reported loans or borrowings from any lender during Accordingly, clause 3(ix)(e) of the Order is during the course of the audit.
declared a wilful defaulter by any bank in its subsidiaries as defined under the Auditors) Rules, 2014 with the Central or financial institution or government or Companies Act, 2013. Accordingly, clause Government.
management, the Company has not public offer (including debt instruments). determining the nature, timing and extent obtained any term loans. Accordingly, Accordingly, clause 3(x)(a) of the Order is of our audit procedures.
explanations given to us and on an overall explanations given to us and on the basis Company. Accordingly, clause 3(xii) of the Order examination of the balance sheet of the of our examination of the records of the is not applicable.

(xiii) In our opinion and according to the information the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. date of the audit report that the Company is and explanations given to us, the transactions Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(b) of the Order is not capable of meeting its liabilities existing with related parties are in compliance with not applicable. at the date of balance sheet as and when they Sections 177 and 188 of the Companies Act, (c) The Company is not a Core Investment fall due within a period of one year from the 2013, where applicable, and the details of the Company (CIC) as defined in the regulations balance sheet date. We, however, state that related party transactions have been disclosed in made by the Reserve Bank of India. this is not an assurance as to the future viability the standalone financial statements as required Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(c) of the Order is of the Company. We further state that our by the applicable Indian Accounting Standards. not applicable. reporting is based on the facts up to the date of the audit report and we neither give any (xiv) (a) Based on information and explanations (d) According to the information and guarantee nor any assurance that all liabilities provided to us and our audit procedures, in explanations provided to us during the falling due within a period of one year from the our opinion, the Company has an internal course of audit, the Group does not have balance sheet date, will get discharged by the audit system commensurate with the size any CIC. Accordingly, the requirements of Company as and when they fall due.
and nature of its business. clause 3(xvi)(d) are not applicable.
unspent amount under sub-section (5) of the period under audit.
financial year.
not entered into any non-cash transactions 3(xviii) of the Order is not applicable. applicable.
ratios, ageing and expected dates of realisation Chartered Accountants to the Company.
Accordingly, clause 3(xvi)(a) of the Order is and based on our examination of the evidence Partner not applicable.

Annexure B to the Independent Auditor’s standalone financial statements criteria established Auditors’ Responsibility Report on the standalone financial by the Company considering the essential statements of Tata Consultancy Services components of internal control stated in the Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Company’s internal financial controls with reference Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the to standalone financial statements based on our Report on the internal financial controls with Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (the audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with reference to the aforesaid standalone financial “Guidance Note”). the Guidance Note and the Standards on Auditing, statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of prescribed under Section 143(10) of the Act, to Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 Management’s and Board of Directors’ the extent applicable to an audit of internal financial Responsibilities for Internal Financial Controls controls with reference to standalone financial (Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section The Company’s Management and the Board of require that we comply with ethical requirements of our report of even date) Directors are responsible for establishing and and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable maintaining internal financial controls with reference assurance about whether adequate internal financial Opinion to standalone financial statements based on the controls with reference to standalone financial criteria established by the Company considering the statements were established and maintained and We have audited the internal financial controls with essential components of internal control stated in whether such controls operated effectively in all reference to standalone financial statements of Tata the Guidance Note. These responsibilities include material respects.
operating effectively for ensuring the orderly and obtain audit evidence about the adequacy of at and for the year ended on that date.

based on the assessed risk. The procedures selected procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of collusion or improper management override of depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and controls, material misstatements due to error assessment of the risks of material misstatement of fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, the standalone financial statements, whether due to the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable projections of any evaluation of the internal financial fraud or error. assurance that transactions are recorded as controls with reference to standalone financial necessary to permit preparation of standalone statements to future periods are subject to the risk We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained financial statements in accordance with generally that the internal financial controls with reference is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and to standalone financial statements may become audit opinion on the Company’s internal financial expenditures of the company are being made only in inadequate because of changes in conditions, or controls with reference to standalone financial accordance with authorisations of management and that the degree of compliance with the policies or statements. directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable procedures may deteriorate.

Standalone Balance Sheet (` crore) Note As at As at March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Liabilities Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 4,879 5,077 Other financial liabilities 6(i) 518 228 Employee benefit obligations 12 103 108 Deferred tax liabilities (net) 15 129 365 Unearned and deferred revenue 560 284 Total non-current liabilities 6,189 6,062 Current liabilities Financial liabilities Lease liabilities 976 835 Trade payables NOTES FORMING PART OF STANDALONE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Dues of small enterprises and micro 6(g) - - As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board enterprises Dues of creditors other than small 6(h) 10,082 7,962 For B S R & Co. LLP Rajesh Gopinathan N Ganapathy Subramaniam enterprises and micro enterprises Chartered Accountants CEO and COO and Executive Director Firm’s registration no: Managing Director Other financial liabilities 6(i) 5,826 4,473 101248W/W-100022

Standalone Statement of Profit and Loss (` crore) (` crore) Note Year ended Year ended Note Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Revenue from operations 10 1,60,341 1,35,963 Items that will be reclassified subsequently to Other income 11 7,486 5,400 profit or loss TOTAL INCOME 1,67,827 1,41,363 Net change in fair values of investments other (516) 51 Expenses than equity shares carried at fair value through Employee benefit expenses 12 81,097 69,046 OCI Cost of equipment and software licences 13(a) 1,010 1,230 Net change in intrinsic value of derivatives (37) 14 Finance costs 14 486 537 designated as cash flow hedges Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,522 3,053 Net change in time value of derivatives (34) 53 designated as cash flow hedges Other expenses 13(b) 31,989 25,377 Income tax on items that will be reclassified 196 (32) TOTAL EXPENSES 1,18,104 99,243
subsequently to profit or loss PROFIT BEFORE EXCEPTIONAL ITEM AND TAX 49,723 42,120 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME / (LOSSES) (250) 73 Exceptional item TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 37,937 31,033 Provision towards legal claim 19 - 1,218 Earnings per equity share:- Basic and diluted (`) 16 103.24 82.78 PROFIT BEFORE TAX 49,723 40,902

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity A. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
(` crore) Balance as at April 1, 2021 Changes in equity share capital Restated balance as at Changes in equity share capital Balance as at March 31, 2022 due to prior period errors April 1, 2021 during the year* 370 - 370 (4) 366 (` crore) Balance as at April 1, 2020 Changes in equity share capital Restated balance as at Changes in equity share capital Balance as at March 31, 2021 due to prior period errors April 1, 2020 during the year* 375 - 375 (5) 370
*Refer note 6(n).
B. OTHER EQUITY

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity (` crore) Reserves and surplus Items of other comprehensive income Total Equity Capital Capital redemption Special Economic Zone Retained Investment Cash flow hedging reserve reserve* reserve re-investment reserve earnings revaluation Intrinsic value Time value reserve Balance as at April 1, 2020 - 8 1,594 71,532 882 45 (68) 73,993 Profit for the year - - - 30,960 - - - 30,960 Other comprehensive income / (losses) - - - (13) 34 11 41 73 Total comprehensive income - - - 30,947 34 11 41 31,033 Dividend - - - (10,850) - - - (10,850) Expenses for buy-back of equity shares1 - - - (31) - - - (31) Tax on buy-back of equity shares1 - - - (3,726) - - - (3,726) Buy-back of equity shares1 - 5 - (16,000) - - - (15,995) Transfer to Special Economic Zone - - 5,058 (5,058) - - - - re-investment reserve Transfer from Special Economic Zone - - (4,114) 4,114 - - - - re-investment reserve Balance as at March 31, 2021 - 13 2,538 70,928 916 56 (27) 74,424
*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.
1Refer Note 6(n).
Gain of `141 crore and loss of `13 crore on remeasurement of defined employee benefit plans (net of tax) is recognised as a part of retained earnings for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Standalone Statement of Changes in Equity Nature and purpose of reserves (f) Cash flow hedging reserve (a) Capital reserve The cash flow hedging reserve represents the cumulative effective portion of gains or losses arising on changes in fair value of designated portion of The Company recognises profit and loss on purchase, sale, issue or hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges. Such gains or losses cancellation of the Company’s own equity instruments to capital reserve. will be reclassified to statement of profit and loss in the period in which the underlying hedged transaction occurs.
As per Companies Act, 2013, capital redemption reserve is created when company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium.
to capital redemption reserve. The reserve is utilised in accordance with the provisions of section 69 of the Companies Act, 2013.
As per our report of even date attached For and on behalf of the Board section 10AA(2) of Income-tax Act, 1961.
This reserve represents undistributed accumulated earnings of the Company 101248W/W-100022
as on the balance sheet date.
Mumbai, April 11, 2022 Mumbai, April 11, 2022 respectively, when such instruments are disposed.

Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (` crore) (` crore) Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING Other assets 747 (2,432) ACTIVITIES Trade payables 2,120 (771) Profit for the year 38,187 30,960 Unearned and deferred revenue 412 246 Adjustments for: Other financial liabilities 968 (171) Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,522 3,053 Other liabilities and provisions 388 1,127 Bad debts and advances written off, allowance for 107 185 Cash generated from operations 46,463 41,627 doubtful trade receivables and advances (net) Taxes paid (net of refunds) (10,336) (7,805) Provision towards legal claim (Refer note 19) - 1,218 Net cash generated from operating activities 36,127 33,822 Tax expense 11,536 9,942 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Standalone Statement of Cash Flows (` crore) (` crore) Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Proceeds from liquidation of wholly owned subsidiary - 12 Components of cash and cash equivalents Interest received 2,594 2,605 Balances with banks Dividend received from subsidiaries 3,554 2,211 In current accounts 809 1,032 Net cash generated from / (used in) investing 3,642 (4,576) In deposit accounts 7,388 77 activities Cheques on hand -* -* CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING Cash on hand -* -* ACTIVITIES Remittances in transit -* 3 Repayment of lease liabilities (935) (879) 8,197 1,112 Interest paid (478) (537)
*Represents values less than `0.50 crore.
Refer note 13(c) for amount spent during the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 on Expenses for buy-back of equity shares (Refer note (49) (31) construction / acquisition of any asset and other purposes relating to CSR activities.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 1) Corporate information given in exchange for goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction Tata Consultancy Services Limited (referred to as “TCS Limited” or “the between market participants at the measurement date. All assets and liabilities Company”) provides IT services, consulting and business solutions and have been classified as current and non-current as per the Company’s normal has been partnering with many of the world’s largest businesses in their operating cycle. Based on the nature of services rendered to customers and transformation journeys. The Company offers a consulting-led, cognitive time elapsed between deployment of resources and the realisation in cash powered, integrated portfolio of IT, business and engineering services and cash equivalents of the consideration for such services rendered, the and solutions. This is delivered through its unique Location-Independent Company has considered an operating cycle of 12 months.
financing cash flows. The cash flows from operating, investing and financing holding company owned 72.27% of the Company’s equity share capital.
The Board of Directors approved the standalone financial statements for the liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and year ended March 31, 2022 and authorised for issue on April 11, 2022. are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value to be cash equivalents.
3) Basis of preparation liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in foreign currencies are not retranslated.
are measured at fair value or amortised cost at the end of each reporting financial statements have been discussed in the respective notes.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 4) Use of estimates and judgements impairment. If the recoverable amount is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is accounted for in the statement of profit and loss.
markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the and expenses for the periods presented.
The Company uses the following critical accounting estimates in preparation financial instruments.
of its standalone financial statements:
is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be completion of the performance obligation.
(b) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment carrying amount of deferred tax assets at the end of each reporting period.
the end of each reporting period. This reassessment may result in change in (f) Provisions and contingent liabilities depreciation expense in future periods.
required to settle the obligations. These provisions are reviewed at the end of The Company reviews its carrying value of investments carried at cost (net of each reporting period and are adjusted to reflect the current best estimates.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The Company uses significant judgements to assess contingent liabilities. to extend the lease, or not to exercise the option to terminate the lease. The Contingent liabilities are recognised when there is a possible obligation Company revises the lease term if there is a change in the non-cancellable arising from past events, the existence of which will be confirmed only by the period of a lease.
from past events where it is either not probable that an outflow of resources specific to the lease being evaluated or for a portfolio of leases with similar will be required to settle the obligation or a reliable estimate of the amount characteristics.
(i) Impact of COVID-19 (pandemic) standalone financial statements.
requirements of Ind AS 116. Identification of a lease requires significant financial statements and expects to recover the carrying amount of its assets.
The impact of COVID-19 on the standalone financial statements may differ term (including anticipated renewals) and the applicable discount rate.
from that estimated as at the date of approval of these standalone financial The Company determines the lease term as the non-cancellable period of a statements owing to the nature and duration of COVID-19.
an option to terminate a lease, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Amendment Rules, 2022, applicable that create an economic incentive for the Company to exercise the option from April 1, 2022, as below:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Ind AS 103 – Reference to Conceptual Framework Ind AS 109 – Annual Improvements to Ind AS (2021) The amendments specify that to qualify for recognition as part of applying The amendment clarifies which fees an entity includes when it applies the the acquisition method, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed ‘10 percent’ test of Ind AS 109 in assessing whether to derecognise a financial must meet the definitions of assets and liabilities in the Conceptual Framework liability. The Company does not expect the amendment to have any significant for Financial Reporting under Indian Accounting Standards (Conceptual impact in its financial statements.
The amendments remove the illustration of the reimbursement of leasehold significant impact in its financial statements.
The amendments mainly prohibit an entity from deducting from the cost of not expect the amendment to have any significant impact in its financial property, plant and equipment amounts received from selling items produced statements.
6) Financial assets, financial liabilities and equity instruments entity will recognise such sales proceeds and related cost in profit or loss.
the ‘costs that relate directly to the contract’. Costs that relate directly to a recognition of financial asset or financial liability.
in its financial statements. entity. The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Cash and cash equivalents income on initial recognition. The transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss The Company considers all highly liquid investments, which are readily are immediately recognised in statement of profit and loss.
Investment in subsidiaries of balances with banks which are unrestricted for withdrawal and usage.
Investment in subsidiaries are measured at cost less impairment loss, if any.
financial assets are held within a business whose objective is to hold these Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest assets in order to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual terms of method.
Financial assets are measured at fair value through other comprehensive by the Company are recognised at the proceeds received net of direct issue income if these financial assets are held within a business whose objective is cost.
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding Derivative accounting and selling financial assets.
options and futures contracts as hedge instruments in respect of foreign comprehensive income.
exchange risks. These hedges are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive consistent with the risk management strategy of the Company.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The hedge instruments are designated and documented as hedges at the Any gain or loss is recognised immediately in the statement of profit and inception of the contract. The Company determines the existence of an loss when the hedge becomes ineffective.
expected to occur, then the amounts that have been accumulated in of profit and loss.
other equity are immediately reclassified in net foreign exchange gains in the statement of profit and loss.
The effective portion of change in the fair value of the designated The Company assesses at each date of balance sheet whether a financial asset hedging instrument is recognised in the other comprehensive income and or a group of financial assets is impaired.
accumulated under the heading cash flow hedging reserve.
in equity till that time remains and is recognised in the statement of profit financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition.
and loss when the forecasted transaction ultimately affects profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (a) Investments Aggregate value of quoted and unquoted investments is as follows:
Fully paid equity shares (unquoted) Taj Air Limited 19 19 Market value of quoted investments carried at amortised cost is as follows:
profit or loss Mutual fund units (quoted) 884 4,068 Carrying value of investment in equity instruments is as follows:
and with manager to the buy-back amounting to `3,560 crore and `1,650 crore as at Services Belgium March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) (` crore) In Numbers Currency Face value Investment in As at As at In Numbers Currency Face value Investment in As at As at per share subsidiaries March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 per share subsidiaries March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 66,000 EUR 1,000 Tata Consultancy 403 403 18,89,005 INR 10 MahaOnline Limited 2 2 Services Netherlands BV - QAR - Tata Consultancy 2 2 1,000 SEK 100 Tata Consultancy 19 19 Services Qatar L.L.C.
Services Asia Pacific Pte Ltd.
Fully paid equity shares Services Canada Inc.
8,90,000 INR 10 MP Online Limited 1 1
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
1,40,00,000 ZAR 1 Tata Consultancy 66 66 Services (Africa) (PTY) Notes:
Ltd. 1. Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C. renamed as Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C.
2. W12 Studios Limited renamed as Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The movement in fair value of investments carried / designated at fair value through Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 OCI is as follows: is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Ageing for trade receivables – non-current outstanding as at March 31, 2021 Trade receivables - Billed – Current is as follows:
Above balances of trade receivables - billed include balances with related parties Disputed trade receivables – - - - - - 16 16 (Refer note 20).

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2022 Ageing for trade receivables – current outstanding as at March 31, 2021 is as follows: is as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (c) Cash and cash equivalents (e) Loans Cash and cash equivalents consist of the following: Loans (unsecured) consist of the following:
As at As at
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
Inter-corporate deposits 5,386 10,291 Other balances with banks consist of the following:
5,495 2,030 Inter-corporate deposits placed with financial institutions yield fixed interest rate.
investments, margin money for derivative contracts, unclaimed dividends and balance in escrow account for buy-back of equity shares.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (f) Other financial assets (g) Dues of small enterprises and micro enterprises Other financial assets consist of the following: The disclosure pursuant to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, Other financial assets – Non-current 2006, (MSMED Act) for dues to micro enterprises and small enterprises as at (` crore) March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 is as under:
2006*
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (h) Trade payables (i) Other financial liabilities Ageing for trade payables outstanding as at March 31, 2022 is as follows: Other financial liabilities consist of the following:
Trade payables Others 229 228 MSME* - - - - - - 518 228
Others 2,673 2,541 46 27 80 5,367 Disputed dues - MSME* - - - - - - Others include advance taxes paid of `226 crore and `226 crore as at March 31, Disputed dues - Others - - - - 32 32 2022 and 2021, respectively, by the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited (merged with the 2,673 2,541 46 27 112 5,399 Accrued expenses 4,683 Company) which, on refund by tax authorities is payable to the seller.
Trade payables 5,826 4,473 MSME* - - - - - -
Others 1,591 1,884 153 16 62 3,706 Disputed dues - MSME* - - - - - - Disputed dues - Others - - - - 32 32 1,591 1,884 153 16 94 3,738 Accrued expenses 4,224 7,962
*MSME as per the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (j) Financial instruments by category The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2021 is as The carrying value of financial instruments by categories as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
within 10 months. Loans include inter-corporate deposits of `10,291 crore, with original maturity period within 9 months.
Carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, loans and trade payables as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, approximate the fair value due to their nature.
at amortised cost is `1,470 crore and `136 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (k) Fair value hierarchy (` crore) The fair value hierarchy is based on inputs to valuation techniques that are As at March 31, 2022 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total used to measure fair value that are either observable or unobservable and Certificate of deposits 99 - - 99 consists of the following three levels: Commercial papers 381 - - 381 Treasury bills 990 990 • Level 1 - Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for Fair value of foreign exchange derivative - 388 - 388 identical assets or liabilities.
observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are As at March 31, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total they based on available market data.
value on a recurring basis and financial assets that are not measured at fair Commercial papers 136 - - 136 value on a recurring basis (but fair value disclosures are required):

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (l) Derivative financial instruments and hedging activity The movement in cash flow hedging reserve for derivatives designated as cash flow hedges is as follows:
Year ended Year ended Indian Rupee. This exposes the Company to currency fluctuations.
profit and loss on occurrence of forecasted generally a bank.
of cash flow hedges designated as cash flow hedges:
US Dollar 63 1,635 44 63 1,615 51 contracts have a net gain of `158 crore and `242 crore.
Australian Dollar 30 202 (21) 38 206 16 recognised in the standalone statement of profit and loss for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Net foreign exchange gain include gain of `111 crore and loss of `189 crore Market risk transferred from cash flow hedging reserve for the years ended March 31, 2022 and Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial 2021, respectively.
loss by March 31, 2023. The maximum period over which the exposure to cash flow changes. The Company’s exposure to market risk is primarily on account of variability has been hedged is through calendar year 2022.
foreign currency exchange rate risk.
March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 currency or where assets / liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Company.
10% Depreciation of the underlying foreign 2,034 1,906 Company operates, its operations are subject to risks arising from currencies fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries.
exchange rates, credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, which may adversely against major foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenue in impact the fair value of its financial instruments. The Company has a risk international business.
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations liabilities. The risk management policy is approved by the Board of Directors.
of the financial environment and to mitigate potential adverse effects on the management policies.
financial performance of the Company.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements exchange rates shift of all the currencies by 10% against the functional • Interest rate risk currency of the Company.
The following analysis has been worked out based on the net exposures investments. Hence, the Company is not significantly exposed to interest of the Company as of the date of balance sheet which could affect the rate risk.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss arising from counterparty failure to repay derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed in note 6(l).
USD EUR GBP Others for credit.
having a high credit-rating assigned by credit-rating agencies. Bank deposits `949 crore for the year ended March 31, 2022.
currency exposure as at March 31, 2021: total bank deposits as at March 31, 2022. None of the other financial instruments of the Company result in material concentration of credit risk.
investments, trade receivables, loans, contract assets and other financial `63 crore for the year ended March 31, 2021.
assets.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The Company’s exposure to customers is diversified and no single Liquidity risk customer contributes to more than 10% of outstanding trade receivable Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company cannot meet its financial and contract assets as at March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021.
from operations to meet its financial obligations including lease liabilities allowances) and contract assets is as follows:
as and when they fall due.
Gross% Net% Gross% Net% significant financial liabilities as at:
Borrowings - - - - - customers.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (n) Equity instruments The Board of Directors at its meeting held on January 12, 2022, approved a proposal to buy-back upto 4,00,00,000 equity shares of the Company for an The authorised, issued, subscribed and fully paid up share capital consist of the aggregate amount not exceeding `18,000 crore, being 1.08% of the total paid following:
105,02,50,000 preference shares of `1 each 105 105 shares and corresponding tax on buy-back of `4,192 crore were offset from (March 31, 2021: 105,02,50,000 preference retained earnings.
Shares extinguished on buy-back (4,00,00,000) (4) (5,33,33,333) (5) value, safeguard business continuity and support the growth of the Company.
requirements are met through equity and operating cash flows generated. The II. Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares Company is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. The Company has one class of equity shares having a par value of `1 each.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements approval of the shareholders in the ensuing Annual General Meeting, except IV. Details of shares held by shareholders holding more than 5% of the in case of interim dividend. In the event of liquidation, the equity shareholders aggregate shares in the Company are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution As at As at of all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholding. March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Equity shares III. Shares held by Holding company, its Subsidiaries and Associates Tata Sons Private Limited, the holding 264,43,17,117 266,91,25,829 (` crore) company As at As at % of shareholding 72.27% 72.16% March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Equity shares V. Equity shares movement during the 5 years preceding March 31, 2022 Holding company • Equity shares issued as bonus 264,43,17,117 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 264 267 266,91,25,829 equity shares) are held by Tata The Company allotted 191,42,87,591 equity shares as fully paid up bonus Sons Private Limited shares by capitalisation of profits transferred from retained earnings Subsidiaries and Associates of Holding company amounting to `86 crore and capital redemption reserve amounting to 7,220 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 7,220 - - `106 crore in three month period ended June 30, 2018, pursuant to equity shares) are held by Tata Industries Limited* an ordinary resolution passed after taking the consent of shareholders 10,14,172 equity shares (March 31, 2021: - - through postal ballot.
766 equity shares (March 31, 2021: 766 equity - - capital at `4,500 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were shares) are held by The Tata Power Company extinguished on March 29, 2022.
*Equity shares having value less than `0.50 crore. capital at `3,000 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were extinguished on January 6, 2021.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The Company bought back 7,61,90,476 equity shares for an aggregate 7) Leases amount of `16,000 crore being 1.99% of the total paid up equity share A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to capital at `2,100 per equity share. The equity shares bought back were control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for extinguished on September 26, 2018.
consideration.
lease separately from non-lease components of the contract and allocates extinguished on June 7, 2017.
VI. Disclosure of Shareholding of Promoters standalone price of the non-lease components.
Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2022 is as follows:
accumulated impairment losses, if any and adjusted for any remeasurement of Disclosure of shareholding of promoters as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:
No. of shares % of No. of shares % of year plant and equipment. Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment whenever total total there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
shares shares Impairment loss, if any, is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, if that over the lease term. In case of a finance lease, finance income is recognised rate can be readily determined. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the over the lease term based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate Company uses incremental borrowing rate. For leases with reasonably similar of return on the lessor’s net investment in the lease. When the Company is characteristics, the Company, on a lease-by-lease basis, may adopt either the an intermediate lessor it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the incremental borrowing rate specific to the lease or the incremental borrowing sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with rate for the portfolio as a whole. The lease payments shall include fixed reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with payments, variable lease payments, residual value guarantees, exercise price reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to of a purchase option where the Company is reasonably certain to exercise which the Company applies the exemption described above, then it classifies that option and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease the sub-lease as an operating lease.
reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect consideration in the contract.
the lease payments made and remeasuring the carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed The details of the right-of-use assets held by the Company is as follows:
Vehicles* - - basis over the lease term.
Company as a lessor
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Interest on lease liabilities is `451 crore and `450 crore for the years ended (` crore) March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards expenses relating to short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
Leasehold improvement 6 6 for short term and low value leases.
Vehicles 1 1 such extension periods is `722 crore and `660 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
on lease to conduct its business in the ordinary course. The Company does Depreciation on right-of-use assets is as follows:
not have any lease restrictions and commitment towards variable rent as per (` crore) the contract.
Software licences 38 1 freehold land) and impairment loss, if any.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any Depreciation is not recorded on capital work-in-progress until construction change in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis. and installation are complete and the asset is ready for its intended use.
Plant and equipment 10 years amount is determined for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
Electrical installations 4-10 years profit and loss.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
Total 10,815
*`2,012 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2022.
Total 10,682
*`1,921 crore has been capitalised and transferred to property, plant and equipment during the year ended March 31, 2021.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Capital work-in-progress Intangible assets with finite life are evaluated for recoverability whenever there is any indication that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If any • Capital work-in-progress ageing such indication exists, the recoverable amount (i.e. higher of the fair value less Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2022 is as follows: cost to sell and the value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis (` crore) unless the asset does not generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets. In such cases, the recoverable amount is determined Capital work-in-progress Amount in capital work-in-progress for a period of Total for the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.
639 97 37 373 1,146 its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised in the statement of profit and loss.
Ageing for capital work-in-progress as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:
Intangible assets consist of the following:
Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2021 (218) rolling annual plan.
as applicable, less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment, if Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2022 1,018 any.
useful life ranging between 2-5 years on a straight-line basis over the period of its economic useful life.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) (c) Other assets Other assets consist of the following:
The estimated amortisation for years subsequent to March 31, 2022 is as Others 285 391 follows:
Year ending March 31, Amortisation expense comprise:
1,018 Titan Engineering and Automation Limited -* -*
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Other assets – Current Contract fulfillment costs of `564 crore and `358 crore for the years (` crore) ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, have been amortised in the standalone statement of profit and loss. Refer note 10 for the changes in As at As at contract asset.
Advance to related parties 8 10 Inventories consists of a) Raw materials, sub-assemblies and components, Contract assets 3,334 2,931 b) Work-in-progress, c) Stores and spare parts and d) Finished goods.
Indirect taxes recoverable 1,001 1,172 overheads.
Considered doubtful Inventories consist of the following:
Tata AIG General Insurance Company Limited 1 1 Tata Sons Private Limited 7 7 *Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
towards acquiring right-of-use of leasehold land as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (e) Other liabilities 9) Other equity Other liabilities consist of the following: Other equity consist of the following:
7,287 2,538 Provisions consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (` crore) Revenue is recognised upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration which the As at As at March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Company expects to receive in exchange for those products or services.
Dividend on equity shares 13,317 10,850 output basis measured by units delivered, efforts expended, number of Transfer to capital redemption reserve1 4 5 transactions processed, etc.
recognised based on time elapsed mode and revenue is straight-lined Investment revaluation reserve over the period of performance.
Cash flow hedging reserve (Refer note 6(l)) the performance obligation. The contract costs used in computing the Opening balance 29 (23) revenues include cost of fulfilling warranty obligations.
customer. In cases where implementation and / or customisation services
*Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
1Refer Note 6(n). and software are accounted for as a single performance obligation and revenue is recognised over time on a POC method.
The Company earns revenue primarily from providing IT services, consulting the point in time when control is transferred to the customer.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements the Company is acting as the principal or as an agent of the customer. of variable considerations to all the performance obligations of the contract The Company recognises revenue in the gross amount of consideration unless there is observable evidence that they pertain to one or more distinct when it is acting as a principal and at net amount of consideration when it performance obligations.
is acting as an agent.
customers. of such product or service, transfer of significant risks and rewards to the customer, acceptance of delivery by the customer, etc.
multiple products and services to a customer. The Company assesses the Revenue from subsidiaries is recognised based on transaction price which is at products / services promised in a contract and identifies distinct performance arm’s length.
obligation. The transaction price could be either a fixed amount of customer to satisfy future performance obligations and whether costs are expected to consideration or variable consideration with elements such as volume be recovered.
consideration payable to the customer is adjusted to the transaction price, (only act of invoicing is pending) when there is unconditional right to receive unless it is a payment for a distinct product or service from the customer. The cash, and only passage of time is required, as per contractual terms.
only to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the Unearned and deferred revenue (“contract liability”) is recognised when there amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur and is reassessed are billings in excess of revenues.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The billing schedules agreed with customers include periodic performance Revenue disaggregation by industry vertical is as follows:
based payments and / or milestone based progress payments. Invoices are (` crore) payable within contractually agreed credit period.
Manufacturing 14,576 11,747 contract exceed the economic benefits to be received.
existing obligation could undergo a change. In the event transaction price is revised for existing obligation, a cumulative adjustment is accounted for. Revenue disaggregation by geography is as follows:
Year ended Year ended of services, industry verticals and geography.
1,60,341 1,35,963 Geographical revenue is allocated based on the location of the customers.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Information about major customers Changes in contract assets are as follows:
Unsatisfied (or partially satisfied) performance obligations are subject to Changes in unearned and deferred revenue are as follows:
Revenue recognised that was included in the (2,311) (2,388) excluded from the amount mentioned above.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Reconciliation of revenue recognised with the contracted price is as follows: (` crore) Year ended Year ended (` crore) March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Year ended Year ended Net foreign exchange gain 1,068 428 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Rent income 21 7 Other income 81 68 Contracted price 1,62,898 1,38,292 7,486 5,400 Reductions towards variable consideration (2,557) (2,329) Interest income comprise:
through OCI level credits, etc.
11) Other income Dividend income comprise:
Dividend from subsidiaries 3,548 2,213 Dividend income is recorded when the right to receive payment is established.
Defined benefit plans Other income consist of the following:
equipment termination benefits.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet represents services are recognised as undiscounted liability at the balance sheet date.
present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the are recognised as an actuarially determined liability at the present value of the scheme. defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The Company provides benefits such as gratuity, pension and provident fund Employee benefit expenses consist of the following:
(` crore) benefit plans.
contribution plans to its employees which are treated as defined contribution 81,097 69,046 plans.
Employee benefit obligations consist of the following:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Employee benefit obligations – Current Employee benefit plans consist of the following:
branches of the Company also provide for retirement benefit plans in accordance with the local laws.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The following table sets out the details of the defined benefit retirement plans and the amounts recognised in the financial statements:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Net periodic gratuity cost, included in employee cost consists of the following components:
Actual return on plan assets 329 - - 329 388 - - 388 Remeasurement of the net defined benefit (asset) / liability:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plan are set out below:
Future mortality assumptions are taken based on the published statistics by If the discount rate increases / decreases by 0.50%, the defined benefit the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India. obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
obligations funds for year ending March 31, 2023 in view of adequate surplus Increase of 0.50% (159) (190) plan assets as at March 31, 2022.
benefit obligations are discount rate and expected salary increase. The benefit obligations would increase / (decrease) as follows:
changes of the respective assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting (` crore) period, while holding all other assumptions constant.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the Provident fund actual change in the defined benefit obligations as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the In accordance with Indian law, all eligible employees of the Company in India assumptions may be correlated. are entitled to receive benefits under the provident fund plan in which both the employee and employer (at a determined rate) contribute monthly to Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of a trust set up by the Company to manage the investments and distribute the defined benefit obligations has been calculated using the Projected Unit the amounts entitled to employees. This plan is a defined benefit plan as the Credit Method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that Company is obligated to provide its members a rate of return which should, at applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the the minimum, meet the interest rate declared by Government administered balance sheet. provident fund. A part of the Company’s contribution is transferred to Government administered pension fund. The contributions made by the Each year an Asset-Liability matching study is performed in which the Company and the shortfall of interest, if any, are recognised as an expense in consequences of the strategic investment policies are analysed in terms of risk statement of profit and loss under employee benefit expenses. In accordance and return profiles. Investment and contribution policies are integrated within with an actuarial valuation of provident fund liabilities on the basis of this study. guidance issued by Actuarial Society of India and based on the assumptions as mentioned below, there is no deficiency in the interest cost as the present The defined benefit obligations shall mature after the year ended March 31, value of the expected future earnings of the fund is greater than the expected 2022 as follows:
amount to be credited to the individual members based on the expected guaranteed rate of interest of Government administered provident fund.
(` crore) Year ending March 31, Defined benefit obligations The details of fund and plan assets are given below:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The plan assets have been primarly invested in government securities and 13) Cost recognition corporate bonds.
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and have been classified according to their nature.
aggregation of costs which are individually not material such as commission Guaranteed rate of return 8.10% 8.50% and brokerage, recruitment and training, entertainment, etc.
The Company expensed `1,372 crore and `1,078 crore for the years ended (a) Cost of equipment and software licences March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards provident fund.
Cost of equipment and software licences consist of the following:
The Company expensed `885 crore and `658 crore for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards foreign defined contribution *Represents value less than `0.50 crore.
plans.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements (b) Other expenses (` crore) Other expenses consist of the following: Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 (` crore) 4 Total of previous years shortfall - - Year ended Year ended 5 Reason for shortfall NA NA March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 6 Nature of CSR activities Disaster Relief, Education, Skilling, Fees to external consultants 19,338 14,527 Employment, Entrepreneurship, Facility expenses 1,707 1,708 Health, Wellness and Water, Travel expenses 1,361 919 Sanitation and Hygiene, Heritage Communication expenses 1,303 1,254 7 Details of related party transactions in Bad debts and advances written off, allowance 107 185 relation to CSR expenditure as per relevant for doubtful trade receivables and advances Accounting Standard :
Other expenses include `3,733 crore and `2,944 crore for the years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, towards sales, marketing and Finance costs consist of the following:
company during the year 486 537 2 Amount of expenditure incurred on:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 15) Income taxes Deferred income taxes Income tax expense comprises current tax expense and the net change in Deferred income tax is recognised using the balance sheet approach. Deferred the deferred tax asset or liability during the year. Current and deferred taxes income tax assets and liabilities are recognised for deductible and taxable are recognised in statement of profit and loss, except when they relate to temporary differences arising between the tax base of assets and liabilities and items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, their carrying amount, except when the deferred income tax arises from the in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. combination and affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss at the time of the transaction.
current tax payable by the Company in India is Indian income tax payable can be utilised.
computed in accordance with the tax laws applicable in the jurisdiction in income tax asset to be utilised.
income. rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be received or settled.
intends to settle the asset and liability on a net basis. between the carrying values of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases that reverse after the tax holiday ends.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes The reconciliation of estimated income tax expense at statutory income tax levied by the same taxation authority and the relevant entity intends to settle rate to income tax expense reported in statement of profit and loss is as its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. follows:
Profit before taxes 49,723 40,902 realised.
Indian statutory income tax rate 34.94% 34.94% The income tax expense consists of the following:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements export of services for the first five years, 50% of such profit or gains for a Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Significant components of net deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:
ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:
1,872 358 (32) 597 2,795 reliably and it is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the asset will be realised.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Direct tax contingencies 16) Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing profit or loss attributable The Company has ongoing disputes with income tax authorities in India and to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of in some of the other jurisdictions where it operates. The disputes relate to tax equity shares outstanding during the year. The Company did not have any treatment of certain expenses claimed as deduction, computation or eligibility potentially dilutive securities in any of the years presented.
from the seller of TCS e-Serve Limited. 17) Auditor’s remuneration Auditor’s remuneration consists of the following:
fiscal 2018 and earlier. AS 108, Operating Segments, the Company has disclosed the segment information in the consolidated financial statements.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 19) Commitments and contingencies `7,115 crore (US $940 million) to Epic which was thereafter reduced by the Trial Court to `3,179 crore (US $420 million). Pursuant to Capital commitments reaffirmation of the District Court order in March 2019, the Company The Company has contractually committed (net of advances) `1,315 crore and filed an appeal in the Appeals Court to fully set aside the Order. Epic also `1,009 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, for purchase of filed a cross appeal challenging the reduction by the District Court judge property, plant and equipment. of `757 crore (US $100 million) award and `1,514 crore (US $200 million) in punitive damages. On August 20, 2020, the Appeals Contingencies Court vacated the award of `2,119 crore (US $280 million) in punitive • Direct tax matters damages considering the award to be constitutionally excessive and remanded the case back to District Court with instructions to reassess Refer note 15.
punitive damages have been remanded back to the District Court. Both management evaluation and advice of tax consultants.
`2,119 crore (US $280 million) towards punitive damages and remanding debts.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements and loss for three month period ended September 30, 2020. This was Company undertakes not to divest its ownership interest directly or presented as an “exceptional item” in the standalone statement of profit indirectly in the subsidiary and provide such managerial, technical and and loss. financial assistance to ensure continued successful operations of the subsidiary.
in order to stay execution of the judgement pending post-appeal subsidiaries. The Company does not expect any outflow of resources in proceedings and conclusion. respect of the above.
• Guarantees and letter of comfort The amounts assessed as contingent liability do not include interest that could be claimed by counter parties.

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements 20) Related party transactions The Company’s principal related parties consist of its holding company, Tata Sons Private Limited and its subsidiaries, its own subsidiaries, affiliates and key managerial personnel. The Company’s material related party transactions and outstanding balances are with related parties with whom the Company routinely enter into transactions in the ordinary course of business. Refer note 21 of consolidated financial statement for list of subsidiaries of the Company.
Transactions with related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Balances receivable from related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Balances payable to related parties are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements Material related party transactions are as follows: Material related party balances are as follows:
Dividend income Transactions with key management personnel are as follows:

Notes forming part of Standalone Financial Statements The remuneration of directors and key executives is determined by the remuneration committee having regard to the performance of individuals and market trends.
The above figures do not include provisions for encashable leave, gratuity and premium paid for group health insurance, as separate actuarial valuation / premium paid are not available.
21) The sitting fees and commission paid to non-executive directors is `12 crore and `10 crore as at March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.
which are under consideration by the Ministry. The Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified. The Company will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.

Ratio Numerator Denominator Current year Previous year Net profit ratio (in %) Profit for the year Revenue from operations 23.8% 22.8% Return on capital employed (in %) Profit before tax and finance costs Capital employed = Net worth + Lease liabilities + 60.4% 51.1% Deferred tax liabilities Return on investment (in %) Income generated from invested funds Average invested funds in treasury investments 6.1% 6.5% 24) Dividends Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2022 include an amount of `15.00 per equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2021 and an amount of `21.00 per equity share towards interim dividends for the year ended March 31, 2022. Dividends paid during the year ended March 31, 2021 include an amount of `6.00 per equity share towards final dividend for the year ended March 31, 2020 and an amount of `23.00 per equity share towards interim dividends (including special dividend) for the year ended March 31, 2021.
dividend of `22.00 per share in respect of the year ended March 31, 2022 subject to the approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, and if approved, would result in a cash outflow of approximately `8,050 crore.

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013, read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Sr. Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming Start date of End date of Reporting Exchange Rate Share Reserves Total Total Investments Turnover Profit Provision Profit Proposed % of Country No. subsidiary accounting period accounting period of Currency Capital and Assets Liabilities before for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding of subsidiary subsidiary Surplus Tax ` crore 1 APTOnline Limited August 9, 2004 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 INR 1.000000 2 108 190 80 32 135 21 3 18 - 89% India 2 MP Online Limited September 8, 2006 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 INR 1.000000 1 120 158 37 121 77 24 6 18 - 89% India 3 C-Edge Technologies Limited January 19, 2006 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 INR 1.000000 10 303 394 81 - 322 98 25 73 - 51% India 4 MahaOnline Limited September 23, 2010 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 INR 1.000000 3 77 134 54 34 3 2 1 1 - 74% India 5 TCS e-Serve International Limited December 31, 2008 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 INR 1.000000 10 146 1,052 896 90 1,889 115 27 88 - 100% India 6 Diligenta Limited August 23, 2005 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 GBP 99.374057 10 1,392 2,696 1,294 293 3,730 8 - 8 - 100% U.K.
7 Tata Consultancy Services Canada Inc. October 1, 2009 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 CAD 60.450647 43 791 2,412 1,578 - 8,022 664 172 492 - 100% Canada 8 Tata America International Corporation August 9, 2004 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 USD 75.696300 2 1,217 4,061 2,842 305 3,845 983 253 730 - 100% U.S.A.

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Sr. Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming Start date of End date of Reporting Exchange Rate Share Reserves Total Total Investments Turnover Profit Provision Profit Proposed % of Country No. subsidiary accounting period accounting period of Currency Capital and Assets Liabilities before for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding of subsidiary subsidiary Surplus Tax ` crore 18 Tata Consultancy Services Sverige AB August 9, 2004 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 SEK 8.160446 - 887 1,290 403 - 3,786 196 43 153 - 100% Sweden 19 Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV August 9, 2004 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 EUR 84.302958 556 2,080 4,081 1,445 1,645 5,794 599 79 520 - 100% Netherlands 20 Tata Consultancy Services Italia s.r.l. August 9, 2004 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 EUR 84.302958 19 55 175 101 - 386 30 14 16 - 100% Italy 21 Tata Consultancy Services Luxembourg S.A. October 28, 2005 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 EUR 84.302958 47 62 214 105 - 716 74 22 52 - 100% Capellen (G.D.

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Sr. Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming Start date of End date of Reporting Exchange Rate Share Reserves Total Total Investments Turnover Profit Provision Profit Proposed % of Country No. subsidiary accounting period accounting period of Currency Capital and Assets Liabilities before for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding of subsidiary subsidiary Surplus Tax ` crore 34 TCS Iberoamerica SA August 9, 2004 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 USD 75.696300 745 933 1,679 1 1,645 - 763 32 731 - 100% Uruguay 35 TCS Solution Center S.A. August 9, 2004 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 UYU 1.845126 66 291 498 141 - 904 160 33 127 - 100% Uruguay 36 Tata Consultancy Services Argentina S.A. August 9, 2004 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 ARS 0.682634 3 (1) 43 41 - 44 1 - 1 - 100% Argentina 37 Tata Consultancy Services Do Brasil Ltda August 9, 2004 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 BRL 15.864257 279 45 587 263 - 1,082 116 42 74 - 100% Brazil 38 Tata Consultancy Services De Mexico S.A., De C.V. August 9, 2004 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 MXN 3.808006 1 605 1,768 1,162 - 3,178 321 322 (1) - 100% Mexico 39 Tata Consultancy Services Chile S.A. August 9, 2004 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 CLP 0.095933 163 221 528 144 53 682 100 11 89 - 100% Chile 40 TCS Inversiones Chile Limitada August 9, 2004 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 CLP 0.095933 147 168 324 9 308 35 87 1 86 - 100% Chile 41 TATASOLUTION CENTER S.A. December 28, 2006 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 USD 75.696300 23 81 216 112 - 469 74 25 49 - 100% Ecuador 42 TCS Uruguay S.A. January 1, 2010 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 UYU 1.845126 - 117 223 106 65 510 120 8 112 - 100% Uruguay 43 MGDC S.C. January 1, 2010 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 MXN 3.808006 65 (22) 131 88 - 46 (51) 32 (83) - 100% Mexico 44 Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C. December 20, 2011 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 QAR 20.787692 4 29 45 12 - 52 1 - 1 - 100% Qatar 45 Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited October 31, 2018 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 GBP 99.374057 - 27 28 1 - - - - - - 100% U.K.

Statement pursuant to first proviso to sub-section (3) of section 129 of the Companies Act 2013,read with rule 5 of Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in the prescribed Form AOC-1 relating to subsidiary companies Sr. Name of the Subsidiary Company Date of becoming Start date of End date of Reporting Exchange Rate Share Reserves Total Total Investments Turnover Profit Provision Profit Proposed % of Country No. subsidiary accounting period accounting period of Currency Capital and Assets Liabilities before for Tax after Tax Dividend Shareholding of subsidiary subsidiary Surplus Tax ` crore 51 Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A. September 1, 2021 January 1, 2021 December 31, 2021 GTQ 9.849876 8 4 25 13 - 22 5 1 4 - 100% Guatemala 52 TCS Foundation March 25, 2015 April 1, 2021 March 31, 2022 INR 1.000000 1 1,466 1,476 9 85 - 379 - 379 - 100% India Notes:
1. Indian rupee equivalents of the figures given in foreign currencies in the accounts of the subsidiary companies, are based on the exchange rates as on March 31, 2022.
2. Tata Consultancy Services Qatar S.S.C. renamed as Tata Consultancy Services Qatar L.L.C..
3. W12 Studios Limited renamed as Tata Consultancy Services UK Limited.
4. Equity stake increased to 100% in Tata Consultancy Services Saudi Arabia on acquisition of Saudi Desert Rose Holding B.V. w.e.f. May 26, 2021.
5. Tata Consultancy Services Ireland Limited incorporated a wholly owned subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Bulgaria EOOD in Bulgaria on August 31, 2021.
6. TCS Iberoamerica SA incorporated a subsidiary, Tata Consultancy Services Guatemala, S.A. in Guatemala on September 1, 2021.
7. Postbank Systems AG renamed as TCS Technology Solutions AG.

Glossary 5G Fifth generation wireless technology for digital cellular networks. 5G is expected to be much faster and enable much higher volumes of data sharing than earlier generations of cellular networks. Its massive capacity and ultra-low latency are expected to usher in an era of hyper-connectivity, enabling newer use cases such as autonomous cars, and accelerating the adoption of IoT.
globally distributed organization execute large transformational programs quickly, while ensuring stability and quality.
assess where the customer’s teams are in the Agile journey, find the bottlenecks, and accelerate their Agile transformations.
less open offices, informal seating, interactive surfaces for information capture, and modern collaboration devices for increased productivity.
and machine learning in the areas of personalization, pricing optimization, marketing, online search and commerce to unlock exponential business value.
Amortization An accounting concept similar to depreciation, but used to measure the consumption of intangible assets.
Analytics In the enterprise context, this is the discovery, interpretation, and communication of meaningful patterns in business data to predict and improve business performance.
Annuity Contracts A long-term contract which can guarantee regular payments.
IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Glossary | 402

APIfication The process of exposing a discrete business function or data within Big Data A high volume, high velocity, and/or high variety information asset an enterprise’s systems through APIs. that require new forms of processing to enable enhanced decision Application Design, development, and deployment of custom software; ongoing making, insight discovery, and process optimization.
Development and support, upkeep, and enhancement of such software over its lifetime. Blockchain A distributed database that maintains a continuously growing list of Maintenance records, called blocks, secured from tampering and revision.
Business 4.0 TCS’ thought leadership framework that helps enterprises leverage Artificial Technology that emulates human performance by learning, coming technology to further their growth and transformation agenda.
people on execution of non-routine tasks. Also known as Cognitive exponential value. Such enterprises are agile, intelligent, automated Computing. and on the cloud.
ASEAN Acronym for Association of Southeast Asian Nations Business Process Refers to the delivery of BPS over a cloud computing model.
Attrition Measures what portion of the workforce left the organization pricing model is usually outcome based.
(voluntarily and involuntarily) over the last 12 months (LTM).
headcount management.
have either been explicitly coded by a human or ‘learned’ by the share capital and the number of shares outstanding in the market machine through pattern recognition of data. Popular types include correspondingly reduces.
Robotic Process Automation and Cognitive Automation.
BFSI Acronym for Banking, Financial Services and Insurance Expenditure assets such as property, buildings, an industrial plant, technology, or (CapEx) equipment.

Carbon Neutral This describes the state of an entity whose greenhouse gas Cognitive The use of AI and machine learning to automate relatively more emissions to the atmosphere are balanced by activities which absorb Automation complex tasks that require reasoning capability and contextual an equivalent amount from the atmosphere; often accomplished by awareness. TCS’ ignio™ a leading cognitive automation software the use of carbon offsets. product in the market today.
activity by reducing them somewhere else. Certified Emission the business processes and the underlying IT infrastructure, and uses Reductions (CERs) and Verified Emission Reductions (VERs) are cognitive automation to transform that operational stack.
incorporate them into transformational solutions built by TCS for its rather than for investment or other purposes.
customers.
Cash Flow Inflows and outflows of cash and cash equivalents.
Compounded The annual growth rate between any two points in time, assuming Cash Flow from Primarily derived from the principal revenue producing activities. Annual Growth that it has been compounding during that period.
Operating Therefore, they generally result from the transactions and other Rate (CAGR) Activities events that enter into the determination of profit or loss.
Chatbots Computer programs designed to simulate conversation with human adherence to protocols, as well as the efficiency and accountability of users, especially over the internet. They are typically used in dialog clinical trials.
information acquisition. Currency eliminating the impact of movements in exchange rates during the Cloud See Cloud Computing period.
for that customer, and therefore, a potential source of competitive differentiation.

CO2e Acronym for “Carbon dioxide equivalent”. It is a standard unit for Digital Twin A digital replica of a physical entity. For instance, a digital twin accounting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from carbon dioxide or of a factory is a virtual model of the factory built using its data, another greenhouse gases, such as SOX, NOX, methane, etc. process, people information. Impact of any change in a process in CPG Acronym for Consumer Packaged Goods the real factory can be studied by simulating the change in the digital twin.
greater agility, scalability, resilience and a superior customer amongst businesses even within the same sector.
Shareholders. TCS has a policy of declaring quarterly interim Outstanding the company’s Revenue.
dividends and the final dividend is approved by the shareholders in (DSO)
DSO = Trade Receivables - billed * 365 / LTM Revenue the Annual General Meeting.
EACs Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) are market-based instruments of profit and loss.
that can be used by the bearer to claim renewable energy DevOps Represents a new way of working to rapidly deploy new releases of a consumption. Each EAC is equivalent to 1 MWh of electricity.
software in production using high levels of automation and tooling.
TCS recommends adoption of DevOps, along with Agile for speed to Share share after deducting any preference dividend and related taxes.
market.
Things. Increasingly, with these technologies becoming mainstream, this word is becoming redundant.

Edge Computing Computing and storage that is located on servers on the edge of Forward Contract A hedging instrument wherein two parties agree to buy or sell a the network, in close proximity to the users, but not through an on- particular asset (such as stock or currency) at a pre-determined rate premise data center; usually reserved for low latency use cases. (or Forward rate) on a specific future date.
ETR = Tax expense / Profit Before Tax rate, TCS will be obliged to sell USD 1 million @ `72 at the end of 3 months.
Industrial Services operations transformation, services transformation, embedded stable, reliable solutions.
software and Internet of Things.
Enterprise Agile The adoption of Agile methods across all the business functions of less the capital expenditure.
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the conditions, and in lieu of laying off employees.
measurement date.
Fintech Businesses that use technology to make financial services more Gamification The process of adding games or game-like elements to any activity in order to enrich experiences and encourage user participation.
services, for example mobile banking apps, while others have GDPR Acronym for General Data Protection Regulation, a European Union revolutionized services such as pay per mile car insurance, or created regulation for data protection and privacy.
new products, such as Bitcoin. GHGs Acronym for Greenhouse Gases; refers to gases that trap heat in the Fixed Price A form of services contracts where the vendor takes a turnkey atmosphere leading to global warming and climate change.
gives the vendor considerable flexibility in the staffing and execution segments. This is in contrast to traditional outsourcing engagements of the project. On the other hand, it also means bearing the project where the focus is on improving efficiency and saving costs.
risk.

G&T See Growth and Transformation Intellectual An asset that is the result of a creative design or idea, such as HVAC Acronym for Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning System Property patents, copyrights, reusable code, software products and platforms, and gives the owner exclusive rights over its usage, such that no one Hybrid Cloud An enterprise IT infrastructure model that combines private clouds, can copy or reuse the creation without the owner’s permission.
the technology returning the requested data or result of the action emerging technologies for specific customer problems.
back to the user.
Latin America and Japan. It brings together researchers from Attrition terminate employment, instead of the employees’ decision to leave.
Inorganic Growth Growth in revenue due to mergers, acquisitions or takeovers, rather kL Acronym for the unit kilo-liters used to measure volume. It is a unit than due to an increase in the company’s own business activity. used to measure and report water usage.
serviced by TCS’ Hi-Tech business vertical. Leading software product Personnel Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and the Company vendors across the world engage TCS to help them build new Secretary. Please refer to the Company’s policy on KMP:
transformational programs. It comprises processes, structure, and the failure, and optimize the design of those machines / devices.
technology that allows enterprises to overcome location constraints Invested Funds Funds that are highly liquid in nature and can be readily converted and embrace Agile methods on a global scale.
into cash.
Invested funds = Cash and Cash Equivalents + Investments + Delivery Model enterprise to redefine how humans and machines work together and Deposits with banks + Inter-corporate deposits to effectively deliver superior outcomes.

Machine Learning A type of artificial intelligence that provides computers with the MVP See Minimum Viable Product ability to learn behaviors without being explicitly programmed. MWh Acronym for megawatt hours used as a unit of measurement of Managed Services This is the practice of outsourcing to one service provider, also electricity. 1 MWh=1000kWh known as the Managed Services Provider (MSP), the end-to-end Net Zero Net zero refers to a state in which the greenhouse gases emitted responsibility for providing, or orchestrating the provision through into the atmosphere due the company’s activity are minimized third party providers of, services around a range of processes and through a series of initiatives and the residual emission is functions, in order to improve efficiency, service quality, agility and compensated by removal of equivalent amount of GHG emissions scalability. elsewhere through carbon offsets.
Managed Services Service providers with the sole, end-to-end responsibility of Non-Controlling The share of the net worth attributable to non-controlling Provider providing Managed Services. Interest shareholders of the subsidiaries.
Market Cap = Last Trading Price * Total number of outstanding business running. Even in tough economic times, non-discretionary shares spend remains relatively unaffected.
Metaverse Virtual-reality space in which users can interact with a computer- a specified price, for small upfront fee called options premium.
be augmented with incremental features and functionality over the market rate.
MJ Acronym for Mega Joule used as a unit of measurement of energy business activity. This does not include growth attributable to (electricity as well as fuel use) takeovers, acquisitions or mergers.
devices. Institution to verify and substantiate an organization’ claim of carbon MSP See Managed Services Provider neutrality.

Personalization Segmentation and responding to individual transactions, customized R&I Acronym for Research & Innovation for a single customer in a single instance. Realization The revenue received by the company per utilized effort. Pricing Platforms A group of technologies that are used as a base upon which other varies by service and by market. Consequently, there can be changes applications, processes or technologies are developed. Useful for in realization compared to a prior period, due to changes in the optimizing costs and efforts, and eliminating iterative tasks to drive underlying business or geographic mix during the period. This does strategic business initiatives. not necessarily mean that like-to-like pricing has changed. Also, Platform as a A category of cloud computing that provides a platform and realization doesn’t take into account the costs and therefore, higher Service (PaaS) environment to allow developers to build applications and services realization is not necessarily more profitable.
over the internet. PaaS services are hosted in the cloud and accessed RECs/ GOs Renewable Energy Certificates / Guarantees of Origin are EACs used by users simply via their web browser. in different markets.
Effectiveness facility to the electricity used by the computing equipment in the Transactions transfer of services, resources or any obligation, regardless of data center. whether a price is charged.
Pricing The price charged to the customer for a billable effort, turnkey Please refer to the Company’s policy on Related Party Transactions:
project or a certain process outcome, depending on the nature of http://www.tcs.com/ir-corporate-governance.
and consulting services, software licenses, and hardware equipment utilized effort on an aggregate basis. See Realization.
to customers.
solicits proposal, often made through a bidding process, by an dedicated use of a single organization.
basis, or on a subscription basis, to enable the execution of certain corporate information and history, financial information, technical common tasks or processes or business functions in a standardized capability and estimated completion period, and customer references.
Robotic Process The use of software tools to automate high-volume, repeatable built to specifications to meet a customer’s unique needs.
cloud facilitates access to IT resources on a ‘pay as you go’ billing economic benefit of the automation. Increasingly, customers are model. preferring cognitive automation over RPA.

SBWS™ See Secure Borderless Workspaces Special Economic In India, these are designated areas in which business and trade laws Scope 1, Scope 2, Green house gas emission accounting categories as per the Zone are different from the rest of the country, with various benefits and Scope 3 emissions Greenhouse Gas Protocol. tax breaks to promote exports, attract investments, and create local jobs.
Workspaces™ COVID-19 disruption. It is a fully location agnostic extension STEM Acronym for education in the fields of Science, Technology, of the Location Independent Agile model, enabling employees Engineering and Math.
to work remotely, while retaining the same high rigor in project Sustainathons Platform/environment for multiple entities to come together in a management, governance and security. The fully distributed nature specified timeframe to seek solutions to sustainability challenges.
and best practices around network management, standard service solutions. Immediate outcomes may include detailed solution ideas, delivery environment, digitized governance processes, heavy use wireframes, code pieces or apps.
of collaborative and cloud based technologies and an internal SOC T&M See Time and Materials Contract benchmarked to the best in the industry.
from a product versus the traditional one-time sale. This applies services, industry solutions units, and the research and innovation to software products (Software-as-a-Service) as well as physical organization – into internal and external co-innovation programs.
TCS Pace Port™ Physical spaces where TCS Pace can be experienced. These spaces enabler is IoT which allows the seller to monitor the asset remotely.
Shareholder The proportion of earnings paid to shareholders as a percentage of brainstorming, design thinking and collaborative innovation with Payout Ratio the Company’s earnings, i.e. Net Income attributable to Shareholders internal and external partners.
of the Company. Payout can be in the form of dividend (including TCV See Total Contract Value dividend distribution tax) and share buyback.
systems and elimination of redundant systems and layers. The members. Project risk is borne by the customer. This contrasts with primary purpose is to shrink the IT footprint and make operations Fixed Price Contracts.
leaner and more efficient.
Sole Sourced Non-competitive agreements that allow a single vendor to fulfill the Value period and a useful indicator of demand, and near term business Contract needs of the contractual requirements. These types of contracts visibility.
comes down to a single vendor discussion, given the nature of the client’s solution requirements.

tCO2e Acronym for tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent which is used as Voluntary Refers to reduction in workforce resulting from employees willingly the unit for reporting greenhouse gas emissions. Attrition leaving the organization to pursue other opportunities, spend time Unearned and For invoices raised in line with agreed milestones for services yet to with family, or for some other personal reason.
Deferred Revenue be delivered. In other words, it is the amount that has been invoiced XR Extended reality, an umbrella term that covers augmented reality, although the underlying effort is yet to be expended. virtual reality and mixed reality.
network – that masks the physical nature and boundaries of those Accounts), then the definition provided in the certified financial statements will resources from the users of those resources. prevail.

GRI Annexures Identification of Material Topics1 TCS conducts annual materiality assessments to update the list of material topics. The key elements of that assessment include:
Key Elements of Annual Materiality Assessments:
list of material topics with significant economic, environmental, or social impacts on TCS’ business, reputation, and operations.
chain address important issues raised by stakeholders.
1 GRI 3-1 IInntteeggrraatteedd AAnnnnuuaall RReeppoorrtt 22002211--2222 Identifictiinnion cteeican ioiicnn|nn412

Key Material Topics2, Key Concerns, Boundary of impact and TCS approach3 to them are listed below:
• Remuneration Policy • Pg 149 2 GRI 3-2
3 GRI 3-3

GRI Content Index4 GRI Standard Disclosure Section * Page No.
other business relationships development strategy CEO
• MDA 108 2-7 Employees • CG 188
• BRSR 196

GRI Standard Disclosure Section * Page No. GRI Standard Disclosure Section * Page No.

GRI Standard Disclosure Section * Page No. GRI Standard Disclosure Section * Page No.

TCS Safe Harbor Clause Certain statements in this release concerning our future prospects are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements by their nature involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from market expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to manage growth, intense competition among global IT services companies, various factors which may affect our profitability, such as wage increases or an appreciating Rupee, our ability to attract and retain highly skilled professionals, time and cost overruns on fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts, client concentration, restrictions on cross-border movement of skilled personnel, our ability to manage our international operations, reduced demand for technology in our key focus areas, disruptions in telecommunication networks, our ability to successfully complete and integrate potential acquisitions, liability for damages on our service contracts, the success of the companies in which TCS has made strategic investments, withdrawal of governmental fiscal incentives, political instability, legal restrictions on raising capital or acquiring companies outside India, unauthorized use of our intellectual property, pandemics, natural disasters and general economic conditions affecting our industry. TCS may, from time to time, make additional written and oral forward-looking statements, including our reports to shareholders. These forward-looking statements represent only the Company’s current intentions, beliefs or expectations, and any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which it was made. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements.
Building on belief