--- Page 1 ---
ICICIBank August 4, 2022 BSE Limited National Stock Exchange of India Limited Listing Department Listing Department Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers Exchange Plaza, 51 h floor Dalal Street Plot No. C/1, G Block Mumbai 400 001 Bandra-Kurla Complex Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051 Dear Sir/Madam, Sub: Notice of the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting and Annual Report 2021-22 This is with reference to our letter dated June 28, 2022, regarding convening of the Twenty-Eighth Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Members of ICICI Bank Limited (the Bank) on Tuesday, August 30, 2022 at 3:00p.m. 1ST through Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual
Means (VC/OAVM).
today through electronic mode to those Members whose email addresses are registered with
the Bank/Depository Participants.
The brief details of the Ordinary and Special Business to be transacted at the AGM are given in
Annexure.
Please take the above information on record.
ICICI Bank Limited Tel. : 022-26531414 Old Padra Road, Vadodara 390 007,
ICICI Bank Tower, Fax : 022-26531122 India.
Sandra-Kurla Complex, Website www.icicibank.com Corp. Office : ICICI Bank Towers, Bandra-Kurla
Mumbai-400 051, India. CIN :L65190GJ1994PLC021012 Complex, Mumbai 400051, India.

--- Page 2 ---
fiiCICI Bank Annexure Brief details of the Business to be transacted at the Twenty-Eighth AGM of the Bank through remote e-voting prior to the AGM and e-voting during the AGM Sr. Resolution Type of No. Resolution (Ordinary/ Special) Ordinary Business 1 Adoption of Financial Statements for the financial year ended Ordinary March 31, 2022 2 Declaration of dividend on equity shares Ordinary 3 Re-appointment of Mr. Sandeep Batra (DIN: 03620913L who retires by Ordinary rotation and, being eligible, offers himself for re-appointment 4 Re-appointment of M/s M S K A & Associates, Chartered Accountants Ordinary (Registration No. 10 5047W) as one of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank 5 Re-appointment of M/s KKC & Associates LLP, Chartered Accountants Ordinary
(formerly M/s Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) (Registration No.
ICICI Bank Limited Tel. : 022-26531414 Old Padra Road, Vadodara 390 007,
ICICI Bank Tower, Fax : 022-26531122 India.
Sandra -Kurla Complex, Website www.icicibank.com Corp. Office : ICICI Bank Towers, Bandra-Kurla
Mumbai-400 051, India. CIN :L65190GJ1994PLC021012 Complex, Mumbai 400051, India.

--- Page 3 ---
(1/C/C/ Bank 15 Material Related Party Transactions for Current account deposits Ordinary 16 Material Related Party Transactions for subscription of securities Ordinary issued by Related Parties and purchase of securities from Related Parties 17 Material Related Party Transactions for sale of securities to Related Ordinary Parties 18 Material Related Party Transactions for fund based and non-fund Ordinary based credit facilities 19 Material Related Party Transactions for repurchase (repo) transactions Ordinary and other permitted short-term borrowing transactions 20 Material Related Party Transactions of reverse repurchase (reverse Ordinary repo) transactions and other permitted short-term lending transactions 21 Material Related Party Transactions for availing manpower services Ordinary for certain activities of the Bank from Related Party 22 Material Related Party Transactions for availing insurance services Ordinary from Related Party 23 Approval and adoption of 'ICICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme Special - 2022' 24 Approval of grant of Units to the eligible employees of select unlisted Special wholly owned subsidiaries under 'ICICI Bank Employees Stock Unit Scheme- 2022' Regd. Office : ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli Circle, ICICI Bank Limited Tel. : 022-26531414 Old Padra Road, Vadodara 390 007,
ICICI Bank Tower, Fax : 022-26531122 India.
Sandra-Kurla Complex, Website www.icicibank.com Corp. Office : ICICI Bank Towers, Bandra-Kurla
Mumbai-400 051, India. CIN :Lq5190GJ1994PLC021012 Complex, Mumbai 400051, India.

--- Page 4 ---
NOTICE

--- Page 5 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the Twenty-Eighth Annual Accountants (formerly M/s Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) General Meeting of the Members of ICICI Bank Limited (the (Registration No. 105146W/W100621) be re-appointed Bank/Company) will be held through Video Conferencing/ as one of the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Company, Other Audio Visual Means (VC/OAVM) on Tuesday, to hold office from the conclusion of this Meeting till August 30, 2022 at 3:00 p.m. IST to transact the following the conclusion of the Twenty-Ninth Annual General business: Meeting of the Company at an overall remuneration of ` 53.0 million, plus out-of-pocket expenses upto ORDINARY BUSINESS a maximum of ` 3.0 million to be allocated between M/s M S K A & Associates and M/s KKC & Associates 1. To receive, consider and adopt the standalone and LLP (formerly M/s Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) as may consolidated financial statements for the financial be mutually agreed between the Company and the year ended March 31, 2022 together with the Reports Joint Statutory Auditors, depending upon their
of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2. To declare dividend on equity shares. and such other tax(es) as may be applicable towards
audit fees for FY2023.
(DIN: 03620913), who retires by rotation and, being
SPECIAL BUSINESS
eligible, offers himself for re-appointment.
4. To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, the following
Resolution as a Special Resolution:
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
5. To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, the following
2023 to January 11, 2026.
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the applicable
Resolution as a Special Resolution:
2

--- Page 6 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing 2013 from a Member proposing his candidature for Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) the office of Director, be and is hereby appointed as a
Regulations, 2015 and other applicable provisions Director of the Bank, liable to retire by rotation.
statutory modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
the amounts below as may be approved by RBI, be
Resolution as a Special Resolution:
and is hereby approved:
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to the provisions of
Salary:
Act, 2013 and the Companies (Appointment and
Supplementary Allowance:
Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Perquisites:
grades of employees who fulfill prescribed
May 2, 2023 to May 1, 2026.
9. To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, the following residential property, the wholetime Directors are
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: also eligible for housing loans.
3

--- Page 7 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
applicable to retired Wholetime Directors Bakhshi (DIN: 00109206), Managing Director & Chief of the Bank or the members of the staff, Executive Officer (MD & CEO) on the following terms as the case may be, from time to time, for the and conditions or such other amounts/terms and aforesaid benefits. conditions not exceeding the amounts below as may be approved by RBI, where applicable, be and is
B onus: hereby approved:
An amount upto the maximum limit permitted
Salary:
thereof, and subject to the approval of RBI and other
approvals as may be necessary. Perquisites:
Perquisites (evaluated as per Income-tax Rules,
Stock Options:
superannuation fund, gratuity and other retirement
applicable, from time to time.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board (also deemed
housing loans.
to include any Committee of the Board) be and is
hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds, matters Supplementary Allowance:
be necessary or desirable in connection with or ApriI 1, 2022
incidental to give effect to the aforesaid resolution.
Bonus:
An amount upto the maximum limit permitted
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
or re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in thereof, and subject to the approval of RBI and other
force), the revised remuneration for Mr. Sandeep approvals as may be necessary.
4

--- Page 8 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Stock Options: furnished accommodation, gas, electricity, water and furnishings, club fees, personal insurance, use Stock options as may be granted by the Board of car and telephone at residence or reimbursement Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee of expenses in lieu thereof, payment of income-tax
from time to time subject to the approval of RBI.
Act and rules made thereunder, as amended from
housing loans.
time to time.
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board (also deemed Supplementary Allowance:
any agreements, documents, instructions, etc. as
Bonus:
An amount upto the maximum limit permitted
incidental to give effect to the aforesaid resolution.
the rules made thereunder, the Banking Regulation
approvals as may be necessary.
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force),
Stock Options:
terms and conditions or such other amounts/terms Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee
and conditions not exceeding the amounts below as from time to time subject to the approval of RBI.
to decide the remuneration payable to Mr. Bagchi
Salary:
April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022 of Members and RBI, where applicable, from time
to time.
or inadequacy of net profit in any financial year,
Perquisites:
wherever applicable, and at actual cost to the Bank Act and rules made thereunder, as amended from
in other cases) such as the benefit of the Bank’s time to time.
5

--- Page 9 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board (also property, the wholetime Directors are also eligible for
deemed to include any Committee of the Board) be housing loans.
and is hereby authorised to do all such acts, deeds,
Supplementary Allowance:
in connection with or incidental to give effect to the
aforesaid resolution. Bonus:
re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force),
approvals as may be necessary.
(DIN: 03620913), Executive Director, on the following
Stock Options:
may be approved by RBI, where applicable, be and is
from time to time subject to the approval of RBI.
hereby approved:
(b) ` 2,377,380 per month with effect from
and RBI, where applicable, from time to time.
in other cases) such as the benefit of the Bank’s
to time.
superannuation fund, gratuity and other retirement may be necessary or desirable in connection with or
benefits, in accordance with the scheme(s) and rule(s) incidental to give effect to the aforesaid resolution.
Directors of the Bank or the members of the staff. In
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
6

--- Page 10 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
the rules made thereunder, the Banking Regulation achievement of such performance parameters as Act, 1949 (including any statutory modification(s) or may be laid down by the Board or any Committee re-enactment(s) thereof for the time being in force), thereof, and subject to the approval of RBI and other
the revised remuneration for Ms. Vishakha Mulye approvals as may be necessary.
subject to the approval of Members and RBI, where
where applicable, be and is hereby approved:
applicable, from time to time.
April 1, 2022 till the date of her cessation
time to time.
of expenses in lieu thereof, payment of income-tax
incidental to give effect to the aforesaid resolution.
under the Income-tax Act, 1961 and rules framed 15. To consider and, if thought fit, to pass, the following
thereunder, medical reimbursement, leave and Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
re-enactments thereof (“Applicable Laws”) and the
Directors are also eligible for housing loans.
from time to time, to exercise its powers conferred
Bonus:
7

--- Page 11 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
by the Bank whether by way of fresh deposit(s) or any and such other applicable provisions of law, if any, extension(s) or modification(s) of earlier contracts/ and any amendments, modifications, variations or arrangements/transactions or otherwise, from time to re-enactments thereof (“Applicable Laws”) and the time, with the Related Parties listed in the explanatory ‘Related Party Transactions Policy’ of ICICI Bank statement annexed to the notice convening this Limited (“Bank”), as may be applicable from time to meeting, notwithstanding the fact that the maximum time, the Members of the Bank do hereby approve balance at any day during financial year ending and accord approval to the Board of Directors of March 31, 2024 (‘FY2024’), may exceed ` 10.00 billion the Bank (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the term shall be deemed to include any duly authorized Bank as per the last audited financial statements of Committee constituted/empowered by the Board, the Bank, whichever is lower, as prescribed under from time to time, to exercise its powers conferred Applicable Laws or any other materiality threshold, by this resolution), for entering into and/or carrying as may be applicable from time to time, for each such out and/or continuing with contracts/arrangements/ Party, provided however, that the said contracts/ transactions (whether individual transaction or arrangements/transactions shall be carried out on transactions taken together or series of transactions an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of or otherwise), for-
business of the Bank.
the Bank, whichever is lower, as prescribed under
authority of this resolution.
its powers herein conferred to any Committee of an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of
Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s) of business of the Bank.
discretion deem necessary, desirable or expedient
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
Regulations”), the applicable provisions of the to have given their approval thereto expressly by the
Companies Act, 2013 read with rules made thereunder authority of this resolution.
8

--- Page 12 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Members of the RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Members of the Bank, do hereby also accord approval to the Board Bank do hereby approve and accord approval to the of Directors of the Bank, to delegate all or any of Board, to sign and execute all such documents, deeds its powers herein conferred to any Committee of and writings, including filing the said documents, Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s) of the etc. and do all such acts, deeds and things and take Bank/any other person(s) so authorized by it, in necessary steps as the Board may in its absolute accordance with Applicable Laws to do all such acts, discretion deem necessary, desirable or expedient deeds, matters and things and also to execute such to give effect to this resolution and to settle any documents, writings, etc., as may be considered question that may arise in this regard and incidental necessary or expedient to give effect to the thereto, without being required to seek any further
aforesaid resolution.
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: to have given their approval thereto expressly by the
authority of this resolution.
Limited (“Bank”), as may be applicable from time to necessary or expedient to give effect to the
time, the Members of the Bank do hereby approve aforesaid resolution.
the Bank (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
9

--- Page 13 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
credit facilities such as term loan, working capital such documents, writings etc. as may be considered demand loan, short term loan, overdraft, or any other necessary or expedient to give effect to the
form of fund-based facilities and/or guarantees, letters aforesaid resolution.
whether by way of fresh sanction(s) or renewal(s) or
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
Bank, do hereby also accord approval to the Board
the ordinary course of business of the Bank.
10

--- Page 14 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
necessary steps as the Board may in its absolute taken together with previous transactions during discretion deem necessary, desirable or expedient the financial year ending March 31, 2024 (‘FY2024’), to give effect to this resolution and to settle any may exceed ` 10.00 billion or 10% of the annual question that may arise in this regard and incidental consolidated turnover of the Bank as per the last thereto, without being required to seek any further audited financial statements of the Bank, whichever consent or approval of the Members or otherwise to is lower, as prescribed under Applicable Laws or any the end and intent that the Members shall be deemed other materiality threshold, as may be applicable to have given their approval thereto expressly by the from time to time, provided however, that the said authority of this resolution. contracts/arrangements/transactions shall be carried out on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Members of the
course of business of the Bank.
consent or approval of the Members or otherwise to
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
Regulation 23(4) of the Securities and Exchange
authority of this resolution.
and accord approval to the Board of Directors of necessary or expedient to give effect to the aforesaid
the Bank (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which resolution.
Committee constituted/empowered by the Board,
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
11

--- Page 15 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
time, the Members of the Bank do hereby approve such documents, writings etc. as may be considered and accord approval to the Board of Directors of necessary or expedient to give effect to the aforesaid
the Bank (hereinafter referred to as “Board”, which resolution.
Committee constituted/empowered by the Board,
Resolution as an Ordinary Resolution:
or otherwise) for availing insurance services (as
the Bank.
authority of this resolution. out on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary
course of business of the Bank.
12

--- Page 16 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
to give effect to this resolution and to settle any under Regulation 19 of SEBI Listing Regulations called question that may arise in this regard and incidental as Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination thereto, without being required to seek any further Committee, for the time being authorized by the Board consent or approval of the Members or otherwise to to exercise the powers conferred on the Board by this the end and intent that the Members shall be deemed resolution and/or such other persons who may be to have given their approval thereto expressly by the authorized in this regard by the Board of Directors), authority of this resolution. consent of the Members be and is hereby accorded to the Board to adopt and implement ‘ICICI Bank RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Members of the Employees Stock Unit Scheme - 2022’ (“Scheme Bank, do hereby also accord approval to the Board 2022”/“Scheme”), the salient features of which are of Directors of the Bank, to delegate all or any of furnished in the Explanatory Statement to this Notice, its powers herein conferred to any Committee of and to grant, offer, issue and allot Units under the Directors and/or Director(s) and/or official(s) of Scheme, not exceeding 100,000,000 (Ten Crores) the Bank/any other person(s) so authorized by it, Units, in one or more tranches as may be determined in accordance with Applicable Laws, to do all such by the Board over a period of 7 (seven) years, to acts, deeds, matters and things and also to execute eligible employees of the Bank, whether exclusively such documents, writings etc. as may be considered working in India or outside India but excluding necessary or expedient to give effect to the Managing Director & CEO, Executive Directors, Key
aforesaid resolution.
Resolution, as a Special Resolution: “Eligible Employees”) in accordance with the SEBI
SBEB & SE Regulations.
time to time (collectively referred as “SEBI SBEB
Eligible Employees under the Scheme.
approval(s), permission(s) and sanction(s) of any as may be applicable, so as to ensure passing of fair
authorities and further subject to any condition(s) and equitable benefits under the Scheme.
permission(s) and sanction(s) and which may be
the existing equity shares of the Bank for all purposes.
term shall be deemed to include the Compensation be allotted in accordance with Scheme in a manner
Committee constituted by the Board of Directors permissible under the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations.
13

--- Page 17 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the Board be and is Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure hereby authorized to take necessary steps for listing Requirements) Regulations, 2015, as amended of the equity shares allotted, if any, in accordance from time to time (“SEBI Listing Regulations”), the with the Scheme on the Stock Exchanges where the provisions of any regulations/guidelines prescribed securities of the Bank are listed as per the provisions by the Securities and Exchange Board of India of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the SEBI SBEB (“SEBI”) and/or the Reserve Bank of India (“RBI”), the & SE Regulations and other applicable laws and provisions of any other applicable laws and regulations regulations. (including any amendment thereto or modification(s) or re-enactment(s) thereof from time to time), the RESOLVED FURTHER THAT without prejudice to Memorandum and Articles of Association of ICICI the generality of the above, but subject to the terms, Bank Limited (“Bank”) and subject to any applicable as approved by the Members, the Board be and is approval(s), permission(s) and sanction(s) of any hereby authorized to implement, formulate, evolve, authorities and further subject to any condition(s) decide upon and bring into effect the Scheme on such and modification(s) as may be prescribed or imposed terms and conditions as contained in the Explanatory by such authorities while granting such approval(s), Statement to this item in the Notice and to make permission(s) and sanction(s) and which may be any further modification(s), change(s), variation(s), agreed to and accepted by the Board of Directors of alteration(s) or revision(s) in the terms and conditions the Bank (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”, which of the Scheme, from time to time, to meet regulatory term shall be deemed to include the Compensation
requirements.
who are exclusively working in India or outside India
incur expenses in relation thereof.
RESOLVED THAT pursuant to Section 62(1)(b) and
with the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations.
14

--- Page 18 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
such acts, deeds, matters and things as it may deem NOTES:
respect of Item Nos. 4 to 24 as set out in the Notice
and equitable benefits under the Scheme.
the existing equity shares of the Bank for all purposes. forthcoming Annual General Meeting (AGM) as they
RESOLVED FURTHER THAT the equity shares shall are unavoidable in nature.
b. In compliance with the General Circular No.14/2020
permissible under the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations.
provisions of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the SEBI Video Conferencing/Other Audio Visual Means
SBEB & SE Regulations and other applicable laws (VC/OAVM).
and regulations.
available for the AGM and hence, the Proxy Form and
meet regulatory requirements.
Attendance Slip are not annexed to this Notice.
the Bank, to do all such acts, deeds, matters and the Board Resolution to the Company at
things including but not limited to framing rules iciciagm@icicibank.com.
absolute discretion deem necessary or desirable and
with the Company/Depository Participants.
pay fees and commission and incur expenses in the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) at
relation thereof. www.evoting.nsdl.com.
15

--- Page 19 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
f. As the AGM will be held through VC/OAVM, the j. T he Members attending the AGM and who have not requirement of providing the Route Map and already cast their votes through remote e-voting Landmark for the AGM venue does not apply. shall be able to exercise their voting rights during
the AGM.
INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING
k. T he Members who have cast their votes through g. Pursuant to the provisions of Section 108 of the remote e-voting prior to the AGM may aIso attend Companies Act, 2013 read with Rule 20 of the the AGM but shall not be entitled to cast their Companies (Management and Administration) Rules,
votes again.
The facility of casting votes by a Member using
shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
remote e-voting prior to the AGM and e-voting during
the AGM will be provided by NSDL. m. The instructions for remote e-voting are as under:
maintained by the Depositories as on the cut-off date Shareholders holding securities in demat
i.e. Tuesday, August 23, 2022 only shall be entitled to mode.
and Depository Participants. Shareholders are
as amended.
i. A person who is not a Member as on the cut-off date email addresses in their demat accounts in order
should treat this Notice for information purpose only. to access e-Voting facility.
Login method for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode is given below:
Type of Shareholders Login Method
Individual Shareholders 1. Existing IDeAS user can visit the e-Services website of NSDL Viz.
to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the remote
e-Voting period.
at https://eservices.nsdl.com. Select “Register Online for IDeAS” Portal or click at
https://eservices.nsdl.com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp.
16

--- Page 20 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Type of Shareholders Login Method 3. Visit the e-Voting website of NSDL. Open web browser by typing the following
URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile.
Once the home page of e-Voting system is launched, click on the icon “Login”
which is available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section. A new screen will open.
You will have to enter your User ID (i.e. your sixteen digit demat account number
held with NSDL), Password/OTP and a Verification Code as shown on the screen.
provider i.e. NSDL and you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for
casting your vote during the remote e-Voting period.
4. Shareholders/Members can also download NSDL Mobile App “NSDL Speede”
from Google Play or App Store.
Depository Services https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/home/login or www.cdslindia.com and click on
(India) Limited (CDSL) New System Myeasi.
Menu. The Menu will have links of e-Voting service provider i.e. NSDL. Click on
NSDL to cast your vote.
3. If the user is not registered for Easi/Easiest, option to register is available at
https://web.cdslindia.com/myeasi/Registration/EasiRegistration.
as recorded in the demat Account. After successful authentication, user will be
provided links for the respective ESP i.e. NSDL where the e-Voting is in progress.
you will be redirected to e-Voting website of NSDL for casting your vote during the
remote e-Voting period.
Members who are unable to retrieve User ID/Password are advised to use Forget User ID and Forget Password
option available at abovementioned website.
Helpdesk for Individual Shareholders holding securities in demat mode for any technical issues related to login
through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL:
17

--- Page 21 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
B) Login Method for Shareholders other than 5. Y our Password details are given below:
then you can use your existing password to
securities in physical mode.
login and cast your vote.
How to Log-in to NSDL e-Voting website?
1. O pen web browser and type the following first time, you will need to retrieve the ‘initial
URL: https://www.evoting.nsdl.com/ either on a password’ which was communicated to you.
Once you retrieve your ‘initial password’,
Personal Computer or on a mobile.
2. O nce the home page of e-Voting system is the system will force you to change your
launched, click on the icon “Login” which is password.
available under ‘Shareholder/Member’ section.
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
demat account or with the company,
Verification Code as shown on the screen.
of Client ID for CDSL account or folio
your vote electronically.
4. Your User ID details are given below: form. The .pdf file contains your ‘User
ID’ and your ‘initial password’.
(ii) I f your email address is not registered,
holding shares i.e.
Demat (NSDL or
this Notice.
who hold shares by 8 Digit Client ID the “Initial password” or have forgotten your
in demat account password:
account with NSDL or CDSL) option available
For Members 16 Digit Beneficiary ID on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
with CDSL
12************** option available on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
your PAN, your name and your registered
For example, if folio address etc.
ID is 120606001***
on the e-Voting system of NSDL.
18

--- Page 22 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
7. A fter entering your password, tick on Agree registered with NSDL for remote e-Voting, then to “Terms and Conditions” by selecting on the you can use your existing User ID and Password check box. for casting your vote. If you forgot your Password, you can reset your password by using “Forgot User
8. Now, you will have to click on “Login” button.
who acquires shares of the Company and becomes a
e-Voting system.
Member of the Company after sending of the Notice
How to cast your vote electronically on NSDL e-Voting and who holds shares as on the cut-off date i.e.
system? Tuesday, August 23, 2022, may follow steps mentioned
above under “Access to NSDL e-Voting system”.
to the e-voting website will be disabled upon five
2. Select “EVEN” of ICICI Bank Limited.
unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password.
In such an event, you will need to go through the
page opens.
“Forgot User Details/Password?” or “Physical User
4. C ast your vote by selecting appropriate options Reset Password?” option available on www.evoting.
i.e. assent or dissent, verify/modify the number nsdl.com to reset the password.
pertaining to e-voting, Members may refer to Help/
prompted.
Kamala Mills Compound, Senapati Bapat Marg, Lower
confirmation page.
Those Shareholders whose email addresses are not
telephone no.: +91-22-2653 8900.
n. T he procedure for e-Voting during the AGM is same as
Password for e-Voting.
the instructions mentioned above for remote e-voting.
after the Notice is sent through email and holds shares
vote through e-voting system during the AGM.
request at evoting@nsdl.co.in or to the Company at will be eligible to attend the AGM. However, they will
iciciagm@icicibank.com. However, if you are already not be eligible to vote during the AGM.
19

--- Page 23 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
INSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING iciciagm@icicibank.com before 5:00 p.m. IST on
THE AGM THROUGH VC/OAVM Sunday, August 28, 2022.
against company name. You are requested to click themselves as a speaker will only be allowed to
on VC/OAVM link placed under Join Meeting menu. express their views/ask questions during the AGM.
displayed. Please note that the Members who do not
the AGM.
z. T he Record Date for determining the names of
mentioned in this Notice to avoid last minute rush.
Members eligible for dividend on equity shares, if
r. T he Members can join the AGM in the VC/OAVM declared at the AGM, is August 10, 2022.
of ` 5 per fully paid-up equity share of face value of
procedure mentioned in this Notice.
held in electronic form to all beneficial owners as per
during the Meeting.
the details furnished by the Depositories as on the
u. P lease note that participants connecting from Mobile Record Date i.e. as on the close of August 10, 2022.
Saxena, Assistant Manager, National Securities
Annexure II appended to this Notice.
toll free no.: 1800-1020-990/1800-224-430. VOTING RESULTS & SCRUTINIZER RELATED
INFORMATION
w. T he attendance of the Members attending the AGM through VC/OAVM will be counted for the purpose cc. Mr. Alwyn D’Souza of Alwyn D’ Souza & Co., of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Practising Company Secretaries or failing him Companies Act, 2013. Mr. Jay D’Souza of Jay D’Souza & Co., Practising Company Secretaries has been appointed as the PROCESS TO EXPRESS VIEWS/SEEK Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote e-voting process CLARIFICATIONS as well as the e-voting process during the AGM in a
fair and transparent manner.
20

--- Page 24 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
the same. The Chairman or a person authorised by R & T Agent for Bonds/Debentures:
Phone: 022-7123 8000, Fax: 022-7123 8098
as on the website of NSDL at www.evoting.nsdl.com.
E-mail: investor@icicibank.com
the Stock Exchanges.
kk. I nvestors holding securities in physical form are
GENERAL INFORMATION/GUIDELINES FOR
requested to register/update their KYC details
SHAREHOLDERS
including postal address, email address, bank ff. A ll the documents referred to in the accompanying details etc. by submitting duly filled and signed Notice and Explanatory Statements, shall be available Form ISR-1 along with the copy of the share certificate for inspection through electronic mode, basis the (front and back), self-attested copy of the PAN card request being sent to iciciagm@icicibank.com. and such other documents as prescribed in the Form to the R & T Agent of the Bank. Investors holding gg. D uring the AGM, the relevant statutory registers securities in dematerialised form are requested to and documents shall be available for inspection register/update their KYC details with their respective upon login at NSDL e-voting system at
Depository Participants.
https://www.evoting.nsdl.com.
desires to opt out or cancel the earlier nomination and
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
the cut-off date i.e. Tuesday, August 23, 2022 can cast
Participants for availing this facility.
securities certificate; consolidation of securities
detailed below:
certificates/folios; transmission and transposition.
(Formerly known as KFin Technologies Private Limited) that any service request can be processed only after
Unit : ICICI Bank Limited the Folio is KYC Compliant.
Hyderabad 500 032, Telangana ISR-4, Form SH-13 and Form SH-14 are available on
Phone: 040-67162222, Fax: 040-23420814 the website of the Bank at https://www.icicibank.
21

--- Page 25 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
shares) at https://ris.kfintech.com/clientservices/isc/ EXPLANATORY STATEMENT UNDER SECTION default.aspx#isc_download_hrd and 3i Infotech (for 102(1) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 bonds/debentures) at https://www.3i-infotech.com/ investors/. Item Nos. 4 and 5 M/s M S K A & Associates, Chartered Accountants oo. P ursuant to the provisions of Sections 124 and 125 (Registration No. 105047W) (hereinafter referred to as of the Companies Act, 2013, the amounts of dividend “M S K A & Associates”) and M/s KKC & Associates LLP, remaining unpaid or unclaimed for a period of seven years from the date of its transfer to the Unpaid Chartered Accountants (formerly M/s Khimji Kunverji & Dividend Accounts of the Company are required to be Co LLP) (Registration No. 105146W/W100621) (hereinafter transferred to the Investor Education and Protection referred to as “KKC & Associates LLP”) were appointed Fund (IEPF) established by the Central Government. as the Joint Statutory Auditors of the Bank at the Accordingly, the unclaimed dividend for the financial Twenty-Seventh Annual General Meeting (AGM) from year ended March 31, 2014 was transferred to the IEPF the conclusion of that AGM till the conclusion of the during financial year ended 2022. Further, as per the Twenty-Eighth AGM of the Bank in line with the approval
provisions of Section 124(6) of the Companies Act, received from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
approval of RBI and other regulatory approvals as may
designated demat account of the IEPF Authority.
141(3)(g) of the Act and they are not disqualified to be
transferred to the demat account of the IEPF Authority.
warrant(s) for the financial year ended March 31, 2016 and the provisions of the Companies (Audit and Auditors)
and subsequent years are requested to submit Rules, 2014.
Pursuant to the requirements of RBI guidelines, their
any delay.
the approval of the RBI, upto the conclusion of the
ACS: 7356
Thirtieth AGM.
The terms of appointment of M S K A & Associates and
CIN: L65190GJ1994PLC021012
KKC & Associates LLP, as the Joint Statutory Auditors of Website: www.icicibank.com the Bank, cover statutory audit of standalone financial E-mail: companysecretary@icicibank.com statements and consolidated financial statements in accordance with Companies Act, 2013, financial results in
Registered Office: Corporate Office:
Vadodara 390 007 Phone: 022-26538900 and other verification and certification requirements as per
Phone: 0265-6722286 Fax: 022-26531228 various regulatory guidelines.
22

--- Page 26 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
The audit fee payable to M S K A & Associates and KKC & In the opinion of the Board and based on the declarations Associates LLP amounts in aggregate to ` 53.0 million, plus submitted by her, Ms. Dhawan is considered a reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses upto a maximum person of integrity, has the necessary knowledge, of ` 3.0 million and goods and services tax and such other experience and expertise for being re-appointed as an
tax(es) as may be applicable. Independent Director.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank
January 11, 2023.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
Item Nos. 4 and 5 of the accompanying Notice.
Item No. 6
Annexure I to this Notice.
approved the appointment of Ms. Neelam Dhawan as an
the Bank.
dated April 26, 2021 has prescribed that the total tenure
passing of this resolution.
after completing eight years on the board of a bank the of Ms. Dhawan would be available for inspection in
person may be considered for re-appointment only after electronic mode.
based on the performance evaluation, the requirements Independent Director for the period of five years effective
of the composition of the Board and the areas of expertise from January 17, 2018 till January 16, 2023.
under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 approved the
as to the Bank.
Ms. Dhawan is not disqualified from being appointed as
January 17, 2023 to October 19, 2024.
23

--- Page 27 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
association of Mr. Chitale as an Independent Director would May 1, 2023 and hence the Board at its Meeting held on be beneficial to the executive management as well as to June 28, 2022 as per the recommendation of the Board the Bank. Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee and based on the performance evaluation, the requirements Mr. Chitale is not disqualified from being appointed as a of the composition of the Board and the areas of expertise Director, in terms of Section 164 of the Companies Act, prescribed for Directors under the Banking Regulation Act, 2013 (“Act”) and has given his consent to act as a Director 1949 approved the re-appointment of Mr. Radhakrishnan
of the Bank.
In the opinion of the Board and based on the term of three consecutive years commencing from
declarations submitted by him, Mr. Chitale is considered May 2, 2023 to May 1, 2026.
made by him, the Board felt that continued association of
Independent Director.
Mr. Nair as an Independent Director would be beneficial to
In terms of Section 160 of the Act, the Company has the executive management as well as to the Bank.
2013 (“Act”) and has given his consent to act as a Director
January 16, 2023.
of the Bank.
experience and expertise for being re-appointed as an
Annexure I to this Notice.
Independent Director.
received a notice in writing from a Member signifying the
the Bank.
intention to propose the candidature of Mr. Nair for the
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank office of director on conclusion of his term on May 1, 2023.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
passing of this resolution.
The terms and conditions relating to the re-appointment Secretarial Standard on General Meetings are provided in
of Mr. Chitale would be available for inspection in Annexure I to this Notice.
electronic mode.
Item No. 8 of the accompanying Notice for approval of the Members
of the Bank.
Independent Director for the period of five years effective are concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the
from May 2, 2018 till May 1, 2023. passing of this resolution.
dated April 26, 2021 has prescribed that the total tenure of Mr. Nair would be available for inspection in
of Non-Executive Director, continuously or otherwise, electronic mode.
24

--- Page 28 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
approval of Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Members of the Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee (“the Bank and such other regulatory approvals as may be Committee”) and the Board of Directors after evaluating applicable, appointed Mr. Rakesh Jha as an Additional performance vis-à-vis defined Key Performance Indicators Director and Wholetime Director (designated as Executive which comprise various aspects including financial Director) of the Bank for a period of five years effective performance, asset quality, risk management, compliance from May 1, 2022 or the date of approval of his appointment and stakeholder relationships. The fixed and variable pay of by RBI, whichever is later. the Wholetime Directors is subject to the approval of RBI. The Bank has put in place the provisions with respect to Malus Mr. Jha was appointed based on his expertise in and/or Clawback on part or all of the variable pay including Banking, Business Management, Risk Management,
Finance, Accountancy, Economics and Information unvested/vested/paid deferred variable pay.
and the Members, the Board at its Meeting held on
Act, 1949.
In terms of Section 160 of the Act, the Bank has received
Meeting (AGM) held on August 20, 2021.
The required details in terms of Regulation 36(3) of the
payment of performance bonus of ` 22,756,545 to Mr.
of 400,200 stock options (amounting to ` 9.12 crore) each to
Annexure I to this Notice.
Mr. Bakhshi, Mr. Bagchi, Mr. Batra and Ms. Mulye for
The Board recommends the Resolution at Item Nos. 9 FY2021, subject to RBI approval.
RBI vide its letter dated September 17, 2021 approved
Members of the Bank.
amounting to ` 9.00 crore to Mr. Bakhshi and ` 6.96 crore
passing of these Resolutions.
each for Mr. Bagchi, Mr. Batra and Ms. Mulye for FY2021 as
The terms and conditions relating to the appointment against the above referred Board approved amounts.
RBI on FY2022 remuneration, the Board at its Meeting held
available for inspection in electronic mode.
perquisites, contribution towards superannuation/retirals
sought approval of RBI for the same.
25

--- Page 29 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
approval of the Members is sought at this AGM for payment Mr. Batra and Ms. Mulye and their relatives are concerned of revised Salary and Supplementary Allowance amount or interested, financially or otherwise, in the passing of
for FY2022 as approved by the Board and thereafter by RBI. these resolutions.
The Board at its Meeting held on April 23, 2022, based on the The copy of the approvals granted by RBI would be available
recommendation of the Committee approved (a) payment for inspection in electronic mode.
business, are exempted from the obligation of obtaining
FY2022 is pending RBI approval.
Ms. Mulye with effect from April 1, 2022 and (b) revision India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
in Supplementary Allowance to ` 1,903,495 per month to Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
resources, services or obligations between a listed entity
effect from April 1, 2022 till the date of her cessation.
or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a related party
Ms. Mulye would not be eligible for variable pay for FY2023.
or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed
Mr. Batra and Ms. Mulye with effect from April 1, 2022.
entity as per the last audited financial statements of the
The required details in terms of Regulation 36(3) of the listed entity, whichever is lower.
rates. Currently, no interest is paid to the customers on
of the Bank.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel of the banking fees on various transactions as agreed with
Bank and their relatives other than Mr. Bakhshi, Mr. Bagchi, the customers.
26

--- Page 30 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
coming into the customer’s account and it is entirely up to the discretion
of the customer how much amount it seeks to place into the account.
Hence, the value of the transaction is not determinable.
maintained by a customer. The Bank levies bank charges from the
current account customers for various services.
Nature of concern or interest of the related The Related Party, being the depositor with the Bank, shall be the
party (financial/otherwise) service recipient in such transaction.
Tenure of the transaction Tenure shall depend on the discretion of the customer.
% of value of transaction/ICICI Bank's annual Not applicable, as the amounts cannot be determined.
consolidated turnover for FY2022)
For a related party transaction involving a Not applicable, as the amounts cannot be determined.
a standalone basis (Based on turnover for
FY2022)
Justification as to why the related party transaction These transactions are done in furtherance of the banking business is in the interest of the listed entity of the Bank with its customers, which may include Related Parties of
the Bank.
Valuation or other external party report Not applicable for the said transactions.
and/or transactions and/or arrangements, as stated in in the ordinary course of business of the Bank and/or its
the resolution at Item No. 15 during FY2024, on an arm’s related parties.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and their
Related Parties mentioned herein.
between the Bank on one side and the Related Parties, mentioned above, are concerned/interested in the above
resolution.
of the Bank as per the last audited financial statements of recommended that the approval of the Members be also
the Bank, whichever is lower, for each such Party. All these sought for the resolution contained at Item No. 15 herein.
27

--- Page 31 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
The Board, therefore, recommends the passing of the As per clause (zc) of Regulation 2(1) read with the proviso Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 15 of the accompanying to Regulation 23(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, Notice, for the approval of the Members. effective from April 1, 2022, transactions involving transfer of resources, services or obligations between a The Members may please note that in terms of provisions listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a of the SEBI Listing Regulations, no related party/ies shall related party of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries vote to approve the Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 15 of on the other hand will be considered as “related party
the accompanying Notice.
Act, 2013 (“Act”), transactions with related parties which turnover of the listed entity as per the last audited financial
are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of statements of the listed entity, whichever is lower.
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) of securities are also undertaken at prevailing market rates/
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”). fair values.
In view of the above, approval of Members is sought for the following:
Value of the transaction (` in billions) Aggregate value of transactions during FY2024 not exceeding ` 50.00
billion with each Related Party.
are also undertaken at prevailing market rates/fair values, on an arm’s
length basis.
Nature of concern or interest of the related The Related Party would be the investee, where the Bank would
party (financial/otherwise) purchase the securities issued by such Related Party.
The Related Party would be the seller, where the Bank would purchase
the securities of related/unrelated parties from the Related Party.
Tenure of the transaction In case of subscription to securities issued by the Related Party, tenure
shall depend on the terms of issue of the securities.
Tenure is not applicable in case of purchase of securities issued by
related/unrelated parties from the Related Party.
28

--- Page 32 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Particulars Details of transactions
% of value of transaction/ICICI Bank’s annual 3.17% (for each Related Party mentioned above).
a standalone basis (Based on turnover for
FY2022)
Details of financial indebtedness incurred for The Bank will not incur any specific financial indebtedness in order to
subscription of securities undertake such transactions with the Parties as above.
Applicable terms, including covenants, Covenants, tenure, repayment schedule, secured/unsecured and nature
tenure, interest rate and repayment schedule, of security, etc. will be as per the terms of the issuance of securities.
by Related Parties are subscribed on the same terms as offered to all
prospective investors.
All securities are purchased by the Bank in accordance with the
Investment Policy of the Bank and applicable RBI regulations.
maintenance of required regulatory ratio, and to optimise profits from
the trading portfolio by taking advantage of market opportunities.
the Related Parties are undertaken at prevailing market rates/fair values,
on arm’s length basis.
stated in the resolution at Item No. 16 during FY2024, on an mentioned above, the respective related parties, are
arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business, concerned/interested in the above resolution.
with the Related Parties mentioned herein.
threshold of “material related party transactions” under Members be also sought for the resolution contained at
the SEBI Listing Regulations i.e. ` 10.00 billion or 10% of Item No. 16 herein.
last audited financial statements of the Bank, whichever Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 16 of the accompanying
is lower, for each such Party. All these transactions will Notice, for the approval of the Members.
The Members may please note that, in terms of provisions
course of business of the Bank and/or its related parties.
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and their vote to approve the Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 16 of
relatives, other than to the extent of their shareholding/ the accompanying Notice.
29

--- Page 33 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Item No. 17 from April 1, 2022, transactions involving transfer of resources, services or obligations between a listed entity As per the provisions of Section 188 of the Companies or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a related party Act, 2013 (“Act”), transactions with related parties which are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other business, are exempted from the obligation of obtaining hand will be considered as “related party transactions”, and prior approval of shareholders. However, such transactions, as “material related party transactions”, if the transaction to if material, require prior approval of shareholders by way be entered into individually or taken together with previous of an ordinary resolution, notwithstanding the fact that the transactions during a financial year, exceeds ` 10.00 billion same are at an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed of business, as per the requirements of the provisions of entity as per the last audited financial statements of the
Regulation 23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of listed entity, whichever is lower.
ICICI Bank Limited (“Bank”) may undertake sale of
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
As per clause (zc) of Regulation 2(1) read with the proviso (including related parties), at prevailing market rates/fair
to Regulation 23(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, effective values, as may be applicable.
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
Value of the transaction (` in billions) Aggregate value of transactions during FY2024 not exceeding ` 50.00
billion with each Related Party, as mentioned above.
Material terms Secondary market sale of securities are done at prevailing market rate/
fair value on an arm’s length basis.
Nature of concern or interest of the related The Related Party would be the buyer of the securities sold by the Bank.
Tenure of the transaction Not applicable
% of value of transaction/ICICI Bank's annual 3.17% (for each Related Party mentioned above).
a standalone basis (Based on turnover for
FY2022)
Justification as to why the related party The Bank may dispose of securities, to manage its balance sheet, for the transaction is in the interest of the listed entity maintenance of required regulatory ratio, and to optimise profits from trading portfolio by taking advantage of market opportunities, etc., and the sale can be made to various interested parties, which may include
Related Parties of the Bank too.
Valuation or other external party report Sale of securities to Related Parties is done at prevailing market rates/
fair values, on arm’s length basis.
30

--- Page 34 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
The Bank may be required to enter into transactions, as Item No. 18 stated in the resolution at Item No. 17 during FY2024, on an As per the provisions of Section 188 of the Companies arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business, Act, 2013 (“Act”), transactions with related parties which with Related Parties mentioned in the herein. are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of business, are exempted from the obligation of obtaining These transactions, during FY2024, between the Bank prior approval of shareholders. However, such transactions, on one side and the Related Parties as mentioned above, if material, require prior approval of shareholders by way separately on the other side, may exceed the revised of an ordinary resolution, notwithstanding the fact that the threshold of “material related party transactions” under same are at an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course the SEBI Listing Regulations i.e. ` 10.00 billion or 10% of of business, as per the requirements of the provisions of the annual consolidated turnover of the Bank as per the Regulation 23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of last audited financial statements of the Bank, whichever India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) is lower, for each such Party. All these transactions will
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other
concerned/interested in the above resolution.
be also sought for the resolution contained at Item
listed entity, whichever is lower.
No. 17 herein.
term loan, working capital demand loan, short term
Notice, for the approval of the Members.
vote to approve the Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 17 of related parties is compared with the pricing calculators of
the accompanying Notice. the Bank/comparative rates offered to non-related parties.
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
a part of its normal banking business to all customers on the basis of
uniform procedures, including to the Parties mentioned above.
31

--- Page 35 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Particulars Details of transactions Material terms Type of facility and the term and tenure of the transaction, in each case, depends on the requests made by the customers (including the Parties as above) in the ordinary course. The facilities are considered for sanction, on such terms and conditions (including rate of interest, security, tenure, etc.) as may be permitted under applicable RBI norms
and relevant policies of the Bank including the Bank's credit policy.
The pricing of the transaction is based on prevailing market rate and is
on arm’s length basis.
Nature of concern or interest of the related Financial (The Related Party is a borrower herein).
a standalone basis (Based on turnover for
FY2022)
Details of financial indebtedness incurred for The transaction forms part of the normal banking transaction of the credit facility Bank and the Bank will not incur any specific financial indebtedness in
order to undertake such transactions with the Parties as above.
vi. If secured, the nature of security As per the terms agreed with the borrowers
Purpose for which the funds will be utilised by The operational requirement of the borrowing entity as stated above.
the ultimate beneficiary of funds (end-usage) The Bank ensures that the funds are used for the purpose specified at
the time of availing credit.
transaction is in the interest of the listed entity and are undertaken in accordance with laid down norms, policies and
procedures (including credit appraisal, sanction and approval process).
Valuation or other external party report Not applicable for the said transactions.
32

--- Page 36 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
The Bank may be required to enter into contracts Item No. 19 and/or transactions and/or arrangements, as stated in the As per the provisions of Section 188 of the Companies resolution at Item No. 18 during FY2024, at an arms’ length Act, 2013 (“Act”), transactions with related parties basis and in the ordinary course of business, with the which are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary
Related Parties mentioned herein.
is lower, for each such Party. All these transactions will Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
be executed at an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
course of business of the Bank and/or its related parties.
or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed
sought for the resolution contained at Item No. 18 herein.
entity as per the last audited financial statements of the
The Board, therefore, recommends the passing of the listed entity, whichever is lower.
ICICI Bank Limited (“Bank”), undertakes repurchase (repo)
Notice, for the approval of the Members.
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, no related party/ies shall parties) at prevailing market rates, and as per applicable
vote to approve the Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 18 of RBI regulations.
the accompanying Notice.
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
Type of transaction Repurchase (repo) transactions and other permitted short-term
borrowing transactions as under applicable regulations.
Value of the transaction (` in billions) Aggregate value of transaction during FY2024 not exceeding ` 40.00
billion with each Party mentioned above.
market rates in the ordinary course of banking business, in accordance
with applicable RBI regulations/directions.
33

--- Page 37 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Particulars Details of transactions
% of value of transaction/ICICI Bank's annual 2.54% (for each Related Party mentioned above).
a standalone basis (Based on the turnover for
FY2022)
Justification as to why the related party These transactions are done at prevailing market rates in the ordinary transaction is in the interest of the listed entity course of banking business with various counter parties (related/ unrelated) in accordance with applicable RBI and other applicable regulations. The Bank undertakes these transactions to meet funding
and liquidity requirements.
are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of
Related Parties mentioned herein.
is lower, for each such Party. All these transactions shall
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other
concerned/interested in the above resolution.
recommended that the approval of the Members be also or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed
sought for the resolution contained at Item No. 19 herein.
entity as per the last audited financial statements of the
The Board, therefore, recommends the passing of the listed entity, whichever is lower.
ICICI Bank Limited (“Bank”) undertakes reverse repurchase
Notice, for the approval of the Members.
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, no related party/ies shall its related parties at prevailing market rates, and as per
vote to approve the Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 19 of applicable RBI regulations.
the accompanying Notice.
34

--- Page 38 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
Value of the transaction (` in billions) Aggregate value of transaction during FY2024 not exceeding ` 40.00
billion.
market rates in the ordinary course of banking business in accordance
with applicable RBI regulations/directions.
party (financial/otherwise)
Tenure of the transaction As may be allowed under applicable RBI regulations.
a standalone basis (Based on turnover for
FY2022)
Justification as to why the related party These transactions are done at prevailing market rates in the ordinary transaction is in the interest of the listed entity course of banking business with various counter parties (related/ unrelated) in accordance with applicable RBI regulations. The Bank
undertakes these transactions as part of its liquidity management.
length basis and in the ordinary course of business, with the party mentioned above, are concerned/interested in the
Related Party mentioned herein. above resolution.
of “material related party transactions” under the SEBI recommended that the approval of the Members be also
Listing Regulations i.e. ` 10.00 billion or 10% of the annual sought for the resolution contained at Item No. 20 herein.
these transactions will be executed at an arm’s length basis
Notice, for the approval of the Members.
vote to approve the Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 20 of
the accompanying Notice.
35

--- Page 39 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Item No. 21 from April 1, 2022, transactions involving transfer of resources, services or obligations between a listed entity As per the provisions of Section 188 of the Companies or any of its subsidiaries on one hand and a related party Act, 2013 (“Act”), transactions with related parties which are on an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course of of the listed entity or any of its subsidiaries on the other business, are exempted from the obligation of obtaining hand will be considered as “related party transactions”, and prior approval of shareholders. However, such transactions, as “material related party transactions”, if the transaction to if material, require prior approval of shareholders by way be entered into individually or taken together with previous of an ordinary resolution, notwithstanding the fact that the transactions during a financial year, exceeds ` 10.00 billion same are at an arm’s length basis and in the ordinary course or 10% of the annual consolidated turnover of the listed of business, as per the requirements of the provisions of entity as per the last audited financial statements of the
Regulation 23(4) of the Securities and Exchange Board of listed entity, whichever is lower.
ICICI Bank Limited (“Bank”) avails manpower services as
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
per the terms agreed with the service provider on an arms’
As per clause (zc) of Regulation 2(1) read with the proviso length basis, to meet the business requirements.
to Regulation 23(1) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, effective
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
Name of the related party and relationship I-Process Services (India) Private Limited (Associate)
Type of transaction Availing manpower services for certain activities of the Bank.
resource services in accordance with the terms and conditions mutually
agreed upon.
commission thereon and reimbursement of the overhead expenses at
actuals.
Nature of concern or interest of the related The Related Party is a service provider herein.
a standalone basis (Based on turnover for
FY2022)
Justification as to why the related party I-Process Services (India) Private Limited provides manpower services transaction is in the interest of the listed entity for certain routine and non-critical operations of the Bank. The outsourcing of routine and non-critical activities helps the Bank to
improve efficiency and is therefore, in the interest of the Bank.
Valuation or other external party report There is no valuation report relied upon by the Bank for aforesaid
transaction.
36

--- Page 40 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
The Bank may be required to enter into contracts vote to approve the Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 21 of
and/or transactions and/or arrangements, as stated in the accompanying Notice.
its related party. India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
transactions during a financial year, exceeds ` 10.00 billion
No. 21 herein.
The Board, therefore, recommends the passing of the entity as per the last audited financial statements of the
Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 21 of the accompanying listed entity, whichever is lower.
Notice, for the approval of the Members.
The Members may please note that in terms of provisions per the terms agreed with the service provider on an arms’
of the SEBI Listing Regulations, no related party/ies shall length basis, to meet the business requirements.
In view of the above, approval of the Members is sought for the following:
Type of transaction Premium paid towards various policies and receipt claim on those
policies.
II. Claim received: Value of transactions will vary as per the number of
claims during the year.
terms and conditions of the insurance policy and the insurer’s claim
settlement procedures.
Nature of concern or interest of the related Financial (The Related Party is a service provider herein).
party (financial/otherwise)
Tenure of the transaction As per policy terms and conditions of the product opted for.
37

--- Page 41 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Particulars Details of transactions % of value of transaction/ICICI Bank’s annual I. Premium paid: 0.95% consolidated turnover for immediately II. Claim received: Not applicable, as the amounts cannot be
preceding financial year (Based on determined.
basis of the subsidiary’s annual turnover on
determined.
a standalone basis (Based on turnover for
FY2022)
Justification as to why the related party ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited (“Insurer”) provides transaction is in the interest of the listed entity various insurance products to cover mortality risk, morbidity risk and long-term retirement benefits for the Bank’s employees as well as customers to whom loans are being granted. The Insurer also issues such policies to various unrelated corporate entities and financial
institutions.
to whom loans had been granted. Claims are settled on similar basis for
all policies issued to related and non-related entities.
Valuation or other external party report There is no valuation report relied upon by the Bank for aforesaid
transaction.
The Bank may be required to enter into contracts recommended that the approval of the Members be also
and/or transactions and/or arrangements, as stated in sought for the resolution contained at Item No. 22 herein.
Ordinary Resolution at Item No. 22 of the accompanying
Related Party mentioned herein.
Notice, for the approval of the Members.
of “material related party transactions” under the SEBI
the accompanying Notice.
financial statements of the Bank, whichever is lower. All
these transactions will be executed at an arm’s length basis Background:
The Bank continuously strives to be a trusted financial
its related party.
services provider for customers and deliver long term value
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel and their for stakeholders.
the Bank’s share of profitable growth opportunities, and
above resolution.
the Audit Committee has approved entering into the said shareholders. The employees across roles and seniority are
transactions and the Board of the Bank has reviewed and committed to operationalize the Bank’s strategy.
38

--- Page 42 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
As an institution, your Bank has always believed in iii. t o enable employees to participate in the employee co-ownership and alignment of the rewards long term growth and financial success of
with the long-term value creation for the shareholders. the Bank.
of the shareholders and to retain and achieve long-term
employees are given at point no. ‘C’ hereinbelow.
Selection of Eligible Employees and quantum of
Stock Option Scheme-2000’ (“ESOS 2000”).
equity shares of the Bank, which results in lesser equity for grades below Leadership Levels, the primary tool
dilution. The Scheme is aligned to the twin principles and shall be Units under the Scheme 2022.
pre-defined exercise period. Each Unit is convertible
conditions of the Scheme 2022:
into one equity share (“Share”) of the Bank upon
A. Brief description vesting and exercise.
by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on November 4, 2019
interest in the Scheme.
one fully paid-up equity share of face value of ` 2
considerations:
equity shares of face value of ` 2 each fully paid-up
mechanism;
ii. to enhance motivation of employees; and on March 31, 2022) shall be allotted to the Eligible
Employees under the Scheme upon exercise.
39

--- Page 43 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
C. I dentification of classes of employees entitled to the specialization of investment is anchored participate and be beneficiaries by IIMCL. As a part of the overall regulatory guidelines, the gamut of investment advisory • A ll employees of the Bank who are exclusively services linked to the private banking working in India or outside India but shall exclude business of the Bank is required to operate Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer, distinct from the rest of the pure distribution Executive Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, or execution services. This purpose is served Senior Management Personnel and Material Risk by IIMCL. All the personnel provide advisory
Takers as on the date of the Grant.
of grant of Units and the vesting period would be
such Units.
laws. Provided however that in the event of death or
the Bank, including but not limited to:
Successors or the Eligible Employee as the case
o I CICI Investment Management Company may be.
T he key principle considered for inclusion of these be dependent on achievement of certain corporate
current subsidiaries is alignment of the business performance parameter(s) such as:
strategies to the overall strategic direction and
i. Risk Calibrated Core Operating profit;
business of the Bank. Few important points under
consideration are as follows: ii. Provision/asset quality;
o ICICI Bank UK PLC & ICICI Bank Canada are iii. O ther parameters, if any, as the Committee may
core international Banking subsidiaries of the determine.
banking, remittances and NRI services. Compliance functions) would be governed by the
regulatory guidelines.
40

--- Page 44 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
deputed or resigns to join the Bank’s subsidiary/ the respective vesting of the Units, or such shorter
associate/holding company prior to vesting, the period as may be determined by the Committee.
by submitting the requisite application form and
even after the transfer or deputation or resignation.
granted benefits under the Scheme is subsequently taxes, as may be applicable after which the shares
designated as Key Managerial Personnel or Senior would be allotted.
permanent disability, Units will be exercised in
shall continue even after such re-designation.
of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and
No Unit or any part thereof shall vest:
• i f the Eligible Employee’s employment is Regulations”) and as may be determined by the
terminated by the Bank for Cause; or Committee in this regard.
than the maximum vesting period of 4 (four) years. or termination without cause or Exercise Period,
whichever is earlier.
changes in capital structure of the Bank). cease to be exercisable and shall lapse and stand
terminated and expired forthwith.
It is hereby clarified that the Bank shall be entitled to
even after the transfer or deputation or resignation.
G. Exercise Period and Process of Exercise Bank but prior to exercise, the exercise as per the terms
of grant shall continue even after such re-designation.
by the Committee for every grant, which period shall necessary/desirable to facilitate exercise of Units by
not exceed a period of 5 (five) years from the date of the Eligible Employees.
41

--- Page 45 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
H. T he appraisal process for determining the eligibility L. W hether the stock unit scheme involves new issue of of employees shares by the bank or secondary acquisition by the In determining eligibility criteria for grant of Units Trust, or both as well as in determining the number of Units to be The Scheme involves new issuance of not exceeding granted to an Eligible Employee, the Committee may 100,000,000 (Ten Crores) Units entitling the Unit consider factors such as length of service, grade, holders to subscribe to an aggregate of not exceeding performance, conduct, present contribution, potential 100,000,000 (Ten Crores) fully paid-up equity shares of
contribution of the Eligible Employee or such other Bank of the face value of ` 2 each.
factors as the Committee may decide relevant.
employee and in aggregate
tenure, utilization, repayment terms, etc.
may be determined by the Committee from the date of Regulations, RBI and any other concerned regulatory
approval of this resolution. authority.
financial year and 0.14% of the total Units available for
Units.
Grant over a period of 7 (seven) years from the date of
approval of the Scheme by the shareholders.
maximum cap of 20,000 Units per employee in any Share (EPS) of the Bank shall also be disclosed in the
financial year. Directors’ Report.
The Scheme shall be implemented and administered except such restrictions as may apply under the
directly by the Bank. applicable laws/regulatory authority from time to time.
42

--- Page 46 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
S. Terms and conditions for buyback, if any, of specified The Board recommends the Resolution at Item Nos. 23 securities covered under the SEBI SBEB & SE and 24 of the accompanying Notice for approval of the
Regulations Members of the Bank.
T. Applicability of Malus and Claw back
or otherwise, in the passing of these resolutions.
Ranganath Athreya
guidelines as amended from time to time.
Company Secretary
ACS: 7356
The Board of the Bank at its meeting held on June 28, 2022, based on the recommendations of the Committee, has Mumbai, June 28, 2022
approved the Scheme, subject to the approval of Members.
CIN: L65190GJ1994PLC021012
Website: www.icicibank.com In terms of Section 62(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 2013 E-mail: companysecretary@icicibank.com and Rules made thereunder read with Regulation 6 of the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations, the Bank seeks
Registered Office: Corporate Office:
43

--- Page 47 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
ANNEXURE I TO ITEM NOS. 6 TO 14 OF THE NOTICE
[Pursuant to Regulation 36(3) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and Secretarial Standard on General Meetings issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India] Ms. Neelam Dhawan Name of the Director Ms. Neelam Dhawan (DIN: 00871445) Age 62 years 8 months Date of first appointment on Board The Board at its Meeting held on January 12, 2018 approved the appointment of Ms. Neelam Dhawan as an Additional Independent Director of the Bank for five years with effect from January 12, 2018 to January 11, 2023, subject to the approval of Members. The Members at the Annual General Meeting held on September 12, 2018 approved the
appointment of Ms. Dhawan as an Independent Director.
Industries, Strategic Alliances, and Inside Sales for Asia Pacific and Japan,
for Hewlett Packard Enterprise till March 2018.
industries: banking and finance, telecommunications, manufacturing,
health care and government.
NASSCOM Executive Council from 2009 to 2017 and made significant
contributions to the industry strategy and public policy frameworks.
Expertise in specific functional areas Banking, Information Technology, Human Resources and Business
Management.
44

--- Page 48 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Yatra Online Inc.
re-appointment including remuneration commencing from January 12, 2023 to January 11, 2026, subject to the
approval of Members.
Information Technology Strategy Committee attended by her. She is also
entitled to a fixed remuneration of ` 2,000,000 per annum.
Independent Director attending the Meeting being entitled to a sitting fee of
` 100,000 for each Meeting.
The details of remuneration paid to Ms. Dhawan in FY2022 is provided in
the Directors’ Report.
45

--- Page 49 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Mr. Uday Chitale Name of the Director Mr. Uday Chitale (DIN: 00043268) Age 72 years 8 months Date of first appointment on Board The Board at its Meeting held on January 17, 2018 approved the appointment of Mr. Uday Chitale as an Additional Independent Director of the Bank for five years with effect from January 17, 2018 to January 16, 2023 subject to the approval of Members. The Members at the Annual General Meeting held on September 12, 2018 approved the
appointment of Mr. Chitale as an Independent Director.
International. He is also a member of the Board of Governors of National
Institute of Securities Markets (NISM) promoted by SEBI.
46

--- Page 50 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Listed entities from which the Director has None resigned in the past three years Relationship with other Directors, Managers None and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company No. of equity shares held in the Company Nil (as on June 24, 2022) No. of board meetings attended during the 10/10 financial year (FY2022) Terms and conditions of appointment or Re-appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for a second term re-appointment including remuneration commencing from January 17, 2023 to October 19, 2024, subject to the
approval of Members.
Committee attended by him. He is also entitled to a fixed remuneration of
` 2,000,000 per annum.
Independent Director attending the Meeting being entitled to a sitting fee
of ` 100,000 for each Meeting.
The details of remuneration paid to Mr. Chitale in FY2022 is provided in
the Directors’ Report.
held on September 12, 2018 approved the appointment of Mr. Nair as an
Independent Director.
experience Management and Law. He has around forty years of experience in the
banking industry and in the field of securities and insurance regulation.
Division, Legal Service Division and Credit Risk Management Division and
development of priority sector lending and regional rural banks.
47

--- Page 51 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
venture capital funds and foreign venture capital investors), Corporate Debt Department, Economic and Policy Analysis Department, Office of Investor Assistance and Education and Surveillance. In March 2010, he joined Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) as Member (Finance and Investment). During his tenure he ushered in new investment and accounting regulations for the life insurance and general insurance sectors. He was also involved in framing the new regulatory architecture for Unit Linked Insurance Plans and also chaired the committee on implementing IFRS and the new corporate governance
framework for insurers.
was member of the IOSCO sub-committee on Investment Management,
Investor Compensation and Protection, Private Equity from 2008 to 2010.
auditing, governance, group supervision, insurance standards and
financial stability.
Technical Committee on Money, Government Securities and Foreign
Exchange Markets, SEBI COBOSAC from 2010 to 2015.
Mr. Nair is also a Trustee in NPS Trust and an Independent Member of
Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.
Insurance, Securities, Treasury Management, Foreign Exchange
Management.
48

--- Page 52 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited Risk Management & IT Strategy Committee - Chairman Stakeholders Relationship Committee - Chairman lnditrade Capital Limited Audit Committee Geojit Financial Services Limited Nomination and Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Geojit Credits Private Limited Nomination and Remuneration Committee - Chairman Audit Committee Brickwork Ratings India Private Limited Nomination and Remuneration Committee Listed entities from which the Director has None resigned in the past three years Relationship with other Directors, Managers None and Key Managerial Personnel of the Company No. of equity shares held in the Company Nil (as on June 24, 2022) No. of board meetings attended during the 10/10 financial year (FY2022) Terms and conditions of appointment or Re-appointed as an Independent Director of the Bank for a second term re-appointment including remuneration commencing from May 2, 2023 to May 1, 2026, subject to the approval
of Members.
Committee attended by him. He is also entitled to a fixed remuneration of
` 2,000,000 per annum.
Independent Director attending the Meeting being entitled to a sitting fee
of ` 100,000 for each Meeting.
The details of remuneration paid to Mr. Nair in FY2022 is provided in the
Directors’ Report.
49

--- Page 53 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Mr. Rakesh Jha Name of the Director Mr. Rakesh Jha (DIN: 00042075) Age 50 years 8 months Date of first appointment on Board The Board at its Meeting held on April 23, 2022 approved the appointment of Mr. Rakesh Jha as an Additional Director and Wholetime Director (designated as Executive Director) of the Bank for a period of five years effective from May 1, 2022 or the date of approval of his appointment by
Reserve Bank of India, whichever is later.
of India, whichever is later. His responsibilities include retail banking, rural
& agriculture and small and medium enterprise businesses for the Bank.
Terms and conditions of appointment or Wholetime Director liable to retire by rotation. Terms of remuneration
re-appointment including remuneration would be as approved by RBI and Members from time to time.
50

--- Page 54 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi Name of the Director Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi (DIN: 00109206) Age 62 years 1 month Date of first appointment on Board The Board at its Meeting held on June 18, 2018 approved the appointment of Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi as a Wholetime Director and Chief Operating Officer (Designate). Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Members approved
the said appointment effective July 31, 2018.
Mr. Bakhshi as MD & CEO for a period effective from October 15, 2018
upto October 3, 2023.
experience 2018. Prior to his appointment as MD & CEO, he was a Wholetime Director
and the Chief Operating Officer of the Bank.
various assignments across the group in ICICI Limited, ICICI Lombard
General Insurance, ICICI Bank and ICICI Prudential Life Insurance.
and colleges across India before completing his management studies
from XLRI in Jamshedpur.
Terms and conditions of appointment or Terms of remuneration as approved by RBI and Members from time to
re-appointment including remuneration time.
The details of remuneration (including perquisites and retiral benefits)
paid to Mr. Bakhshi in FY2022 is provided in the Directors’ Report.
51

--- Page 55 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Mr. Anup Bagchi Name of the Director Mr. Anup Bagchi (DIN: 00105962) Age 51 years 11 months Date of first appointment on Board The Board at its Meeting held on October 14, 2016 approved the appointment of Mr. Anup Bagchi as a Wholetime Director (designated as an Executive Director) for a period of five years effective February 1,2017, subject to approval of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Members. RBI and Members have approved the said appointment for five years effective
February 1, 2017.
an Executive Director of the Bank for a period of three years effective from
February 1, 2022.
Brief resume including qualification and Mr. Anup Bagchi is an Executive Director of ICICI Bank since
experience February 1, 2017. He heads the wholesale banking business of the Bank.
payment and settlement systems. Earlier, he was the Managing Director
& CEO of ICICI Securities Limited.
Bangalore and an engineering degree from the Indian Institute of
Technology, Kanpur. He has been with the ICICI Group since 1992.
and Committee on Financial and Regulatory Technologies and Risk
Management Review Committee.
Financial Services Awards 2021 for helping grow the bank’s retail business
through digital transformation.
52

--- Page 56 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Other Directorships (as on June 28, 2022) 1. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 2. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 3. ICICI Securities Limited 4. ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 5. Comm Trade Services Limited Chairmanship/Membership of Committees ICICI Bank Limited in Companies in which position of Director Stakeholders Relationship Committee is held (as on June 28, 2022) Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Information Technology Strategy Committee Customer Service Committee Credit Committee Fraud Monitoring Committee Committee of Executive Directors Committee of Senior Management Asset Liability Management Committee Committee for Identification of Wilful Defaulters/Non Co-operative Borrowers ICICI Home Finance Company Limited Management Committee - Chairman Board Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited Board Customer Service & Policyholders’ Protection Committee Board Risk Management Committee Strategy Committee ICICI Securities Limited Nomination & Remuneration Committee ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited Investment Committee - Chairman Relationship with other Directors, Managers None and other Key Managerial Personnel of the Company No. of equity shares held in the Company Nil (as on June 24, 2022) No. of board meetings attended during the 10/10 financial year (FY2022) Terms and conditions of appointment or Whole-time Director liable to retire by rotation. Terms of remuneration as
re-appointment including remuneration approved by RBI and Members from time to time.
The details of remuneration (including perquisites and retiral benefits)
paid to Mr. Bagchi in FY2022 is provided in the Directors’ Report.
53

--- Page 57 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Mr. Sandeep Batra Name of the Director Mr. Sandeep Batra (DIN: 03620913) Age 56 years 5 months Date of first appointment on Board The Members at the Annual General Meeting held on August 9, 2019 approved the appointment of Mr. Sandeep Batra as a Wholetime Director (designated as an Executive Director) of the Bank for a period of five years effective from May 7, 2019 or the date of receipt of approval from Reserve Bank of India (RBI), whichever is later. RBI vide its letter dated December 22, 2020 communicated its approval for the appointment of Mr. Batra as an Executive Director of the Bank for a period of three years from the date of his taking charge as an Executive Director. The Board of Directors vide a circular resolution dated December 23, 2020 recorded December 23, 2020 as the effective date of appointment and taking charge
by Mr. Batra as an Executive Director of the Bank.
Company Secretary, has been with the ICICI Group since 2000. He holds
responsibilities of the Corporate Centre at the Bank.
Technology & Secretarial Groups. He is also administratively responsible
for Risk function, Internal Audit and Compliance Groups.
Life, he was also instrumental in leading the company to India’s first IPO
in the insurance space.
54

--- Page 58 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited Audit Committee Board Nomination and Remuneration Committee Investment Committee ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited Committee of Directors - Chairman Audit Committee Risk Management Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited Nomination and Remuneration Committee ICICI Bank UK PLC Board Governance Committee Listed entities from which the Director has None resigned in the past three years Relationship with other Directors, Managers None and other Key Managerial Personnel of the Company No. of equity shares held in the Company 133,000 equity shares (as on June 24, 2022) No. of board meetings attended during the 10/10 financial year (FY2022) Terms and conditions of appointment or Terms of remuneration as approved by RBI and Members from time
re-appointment including remuneration to time.
The details of remuneration (including perquisites and retiral benefits)
paid to Mr. Batra in FY2022 is provided in the Directors’ Report.
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and Members. RBI and Members approved
the said appointment for five years effective January 19, 2016.
Ms. Mulye as an Executive Director of the Bank for a period of three years
effective from January 19, 2021.
consequent to her decision to pursue career opportunities outside the
ICICI Group.
55

--- Page 59 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Brief resume including qualification and Ms. Mulye is a Chartered Accountant by qualification. In a career spanning experience thirty years at ICICI Bank, she had held many significant roles and led several strategic initiatives. She had handled several responsibilities in the areas of strategy, treasury & markets, proprietary equity investing and management of long-term equity investments, structured finance, management of special assets and corporate & project finance. In her last role as an Executive Director of ICICI Bank, she was in charge of domestic and international Wholesale Banking Group, Proprietary
Trading Group, Markets Group and Transaction Banking Group.
Terms and conditions of appointment or Terms of remuneration as approved by RBI and Members from time to
re-appointment including remuneration time.
The details of remuneration (including perquisites and retiral benefits)
paid to Ms. Mulye in FY2022 is provided in the Directors’ Report.
Company Secretary
ACS: 7356
Mumbai, June 28, 2022
CIN: L65190GJ1994PLC021012
Website: www.icicibank.com E-mail: companysecretary@icicibank.com
Registered Office: Corporate Office:
56

--- Page 60 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
ANNEXURE II
INSTRUCTIONS ON DEDUCTION OF TAX AT SOURCE ON DIVIDEND As per the Income-tax Act, 1961 (“Act”), as amended by the Finance Act, 2020, dividend paid or distributed by Bank after April 1, 2020 shall be taxable in the hands of the shareholders. The Bank shall therefore be required to deduct tax at source (TDS) under Section 194 of the Act or Section 195 of the Act at the prescribed rates at the time of making the payment of the said dividend to shareholders. The TDS rate would vary depending on the residential status of the shareholder and the documents submitted by them and accepted by the Bank. Further, higher rate of TDS would be applicable if pursuant to Section 206AA of the Act valid permanent account number (PAN) has not been provided by
shareholder or pursuant to Section 206AB of the Act shareholder being a specified person.
` 50,000 or more in the previous year. A non-resident not having permanent establishment in India is not considered as
a specified person.
Accordingly, the final dividend will be paid by the Bank after deducting tax at source, as applicable, as explained herein.
1. For Resident Shareholders, TDS will be applicable at 10% on the amount of dividend. In case valid PAN is not
provided or shareholder is a specified person, then the TDS will be applicable at 20% of the amount of dividend.
shares held in physical form) or to the Depository Participant (in respect of shares held in dematerialised form)
immediately.
No tax shall be deducted on the dividend payable if either of the below two conditions are fulfilled:
• Total dividend payable to a resident individual shareholder does not exceed ` 5,000 per year.
company or a Firm)/Form 15H (applicable to an Individual above the age of 60 years) with valid PAN and
provided that all the required eligibility conditions are met.
2. The following Tax Resident Shareholders should be eligible for nil/lower rate of TDS upon providing the
documents to the Bank mentioned hereunder to the satisfaction of the Bank:
Sr.
Particulars Applicable Rate of TDS Documents Required
No.
57

--- Page 61 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
Sr.
Particulars Applicable Rate of TDS Documents Required
No.
and Exchange Board of India as Category I or Category II AIF
(SEBI)
• Self-attested copy of SEBI AIF registration certificate • Self-attested copy of the PAN card d. Shareholders exempted from Nil rate of TDS • Declaration that it is covered by CBDT TDS provisions in terms of any circular or Notification provisions of the Act or CBDT • Documentary evidence supporting Circular or notification the exemption status in terms of any provisions of the Act or CBDT Circular or notification • Self-attested copy of PAN card e. All resident shareholders Rate specified in the low • Self-attested copy of certificate under deduction certificate Section 197 of the Act issued by the income tax • Please note the TAN of ICICI Bank department Limited to be mentioned in the lower deduction certificate as MUMI16212A B. Non-Resident Shareholders 1. For Non-resident shareholder being Depositary for American Depository Receipt (ADR), TDS will be applicable
under Section 196C of the Act at 10% on the amount of dividend payable.
Double Tax Avoidance Agreement (tax treaty) on submission of documents mentioned below, whichever is
lower, on the amount of dividend payable.
the Act, at the rates in force which is currently 20% or as per the rate in any applicable tax treaty on submission
of documents mentioned below, whichever is lower, on the amount of dividend payable.
4. The non-resident shareholders who has a permanent establishment in India and is a specified person would be
liable for twice the rate of TDS as applicable to them.
the same. Please note the TAN of ICICI Bank Limited to be mentioned in the lower deduction certificate as
MUMI16212A.
58

--- Page 62 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
P ursuant to Section 90(2) of the Act, non-resident shareholders (other than Depositary for ADRs) have the option to be avail the benefit of tax treaty between India and the countries of their tax residence for which such
non-resident shareholders will have to provide the following documents, to the satisfaction of the Bank:
1. Self-attested copy of the PAN allotted by the Indian Income Tax authorities; If the PAN is not allotted,
please submit self-declaration.
English, the said TRC would have to be translated from such other language to English language and
thereafter duly notarized and apostilled copy of the TRC would have to be provided.
3. Self-declaration in Form 10F for FY 2022-23 if all the details required in this Form are not mentioned in
the TRC;
4. Self-declaration by the non-resident shareholder as to:
• Eligibility to claim tax treaty benefits based on the tax residential status of the shareholder;
• The shareholder did not at any time during the relevant year have permanent establishment/fixed
base in India in accordance with the applicable tax treaty;
• Shareholder being the beneficial owner of the dividend income to be received on the equity shares.
and Beneficial ownership should be on the letterhead of the shareholder for claiming tax treaty benefits
and/or to avoiding higher TDS as per Section 206AB of the Act.
P lease note that the Bank in its sole and absolute discretion reserves the right to call for any further
information and/or to apply domestic law/tax treaty for TDS.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1. All the above referred TDS rates shall be duly enhanced by applicable surcharge and cess, wherever applicable.
telephone/mobile numbers, Permanent Account Number (PAN), mandates, nominations, bank details such as, name
of the bank and branch details, bank account number, MICR code, IFSC code, etc.:
a. For shares held in dematerialised form: to their respective Depository Participants (DPs).
invest-relations.page?#toptitle and on the website of the Bank’s R & T Agent, KFin at https://ris.kfintech.com/
clientservices/isc/default.aspx#isc_download_hrd.
mentioned information as on Record Date i.e. August 10, 2022 as per the details available with the Depositories/
R & T Agent.
respective provisions of the Act, Shareholders are requested to provide/submit documents as applicable to them on
or before August 10, 2022 (6:00 p.m. IST) at https://ris.kfintech.com/form15/forms.aspx?q=0.
the respective shareholders as applicable to them and being found to be complete and satisfactory in accordance
with the Act. The Bank shall arrange to dispatch the TDS certificate to the shareholder.
59

--- Page 63 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
NOTICE
6. No communication on the tax determination/deduction in respect of the said dividend shall be entertained post the above mentioned date and time. It may be further noted that in case the tax on said dividend is deducted at a higher rate in absence of receipt of the aforementioned details/documents, there would still be an option available with the shareholder to file the return of income and claim an appropriate refund, if eligible. Further, it may kindly be noted
that no claim shall lie against the Bank for such taxes deducted.
All communications/queries in this respect should be sent to email address at einward.ris@kfintech.com.
responsible to indemnify the Bank and also, provide the Bank with all information/documents and co-operation in
any proceedings.
8. This communication shall not be treated as an advice from the Bank. Shareholders should obtain tax advice related
to their tax matters from a tax professional.
website for ascertaining the income tax compliance for whom higher rate of TDS shall be applicable under Section
206AB of the Act.
60

--- Page 64 ---
ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22

--- Page 65 ---
TM
Bank to BankTech Bank to BankTech refers to the digital and technological transformation of the Bank. At ICICI Bank, technology is being integrated into every aspect, from delivering value to customers to optimising internal operations. We believe this would enable the Bank to be responsive to the dynamic preferences of customers while strengthening our vision to be the trusted financial service provider
to customers.
priorities being technology platforms, embedded banking,
cloud adoption and data platforms and analytics.
instagram.com/icicibank

--- Page 66 ---
OUR APPROACH TO CONTENTS
REPORTING
INTEGRATED REPORT
ICICI Bank at a Glance 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT Financial Highlights 4 Message from the Chairman 6
This is ICICI Bank’s Annual Report for the year ended March 31, 2022.
the manner in which it has leveraged the six capitals, namely Financial, Values and Culture 34
Human, Intellectual, Manufactured, Social and Relationship, and Natural.
Managing Risks Impacting Our Business 43
REPORTING BOUNDARY
Human Capital 46 The non-financial information in the Integrated Report largely covers Social and Relationship Capital 52 data on the India operations of ICICI Bank Limited and ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth. Environmental Sustainability 58
REPORTING PERIOD
The Annual Report provides material information relating to the STATUTORY REPORTS Bank’s strategy and business model, operating context, performance Directors’ Report 61 and statutory disclosures covering the financial year April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022. Auditors’ Certificate on Corporate Governance 116 Management Discussion & Analysis 117
SAFE HARBOUR
Key Financial Indicators: Last 10 Years 145 Certain statements in this Annual Report relating to a future period of time (including inter alia concerning our future business plans or growth prospects) are forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the ‘safe harbour’ under applicable securities laws including the US FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking Independent Auditors' Report – statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause Financial Statements 146 actual results to differ materially from those in such forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to Financial Statements of ICICI Bank Limited 156 statutory and regulatory changes, international economic and business Independent Auditors' Report – conditions; political or economic instability in the jurisdictions where Consolidated Financial Statements 241 we have operations, increase in non-performing loans, unanticipated changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices or other Consolidated Financial Statements of rates or prices, our growth and expansion in business, the adequacy ICICI Bank Limited and its Subsidiaries 258 of our allowance for credit losses, the actual growth in demand Statement Pursuant to Section 129 for banking products and services, investment income, cash flow of Companies Act, 2013 315 projections, our exposure to market risks, changes in India’s sovereign rating, and the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic which could result in Basel Pillar 3 Disclosures 317 fewer business opportunities, lower revenues, and an increase in the Glossary of Terms 318 levels of non-performing assets and provisions, depending among other factors upon the period of time for which the pandemic extends, the remedial measures adopted by governments and central banks, and the time taken for economic activity to resume at normal levels after the pandemic, as well as other risks detailed in the reports filed by us with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. Any
forward-looking statements contained herein are based on assumptions To view this report online, please visit:
that could affect our future operating results are more fully described in
our filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
These filings are available at www.sec.gov.

--- Page 67 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements Annual Report 2021-22
ICICI BANK AT A GLANCE ICICI BANK AT A GLANCE
ICICI Bank offers a range of financial products and services iMobile Pay – built for all, Over 90% digital transactions ` to retail, rural, small and medium enterprises and corporate built for scale Over 90% of savings account transactions (financial 6.3 million activations of iMobile Pay by non-ICICI and non-financial) are done through digital channels.* customers. The Bank delivers products and services
Bank account holders till March 31, 2022.
customers on InstaBIZ trade online transactions
omni-channel experience to customers.
InstaBIZ, an app that enables Small and Medium Value of transactions on Trade Online increased by
Enterprises (SMEs) to link account of any bank, 76% year-on-year in fiscal 2022.
financial transactions through InstaBIZ increased by
71% year-on-year in fiscal 2022.
Value of credit card transactions in fiscal 2022 bank in electronic toll collections through
was over twice the value of credit card transactions FASTag with a market share of close to 33%.
`14,112.98 `383.47 `233.39 in fiscal 2021. Our electronic toll collections through FASTag
increased by 51.9% year-on-year in fiscal 2022.
in fiscal 2022 was 2.3 times as compared to Self-Help Groups (SHGs) till March 31, 2022. Of
billion billion fiscal 2021. these, 3.8 million were first-time borrowers.
Period-end Advances Total Capital Adequacy Ratio were previously unbanked. ICICI Group, has trained over 750,000 less privileged
individuals in the country since inception.
*During fiscal 2022; others at March 31, 2022
*Digital transactions include transactions on internet, iMobile Pay, point-of-sale, touch-banking, phone banking and e-commerce.
2 3

--- Page 68 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
TOTAL DEPOSITS TOTAL ADVANCES
10,645.72 8,590.20 9,325.22 5,461.35 4.8% 7,337.29 27.2% 5,008.99 7,709.69 6,452.90 5.1% 5,866.47 28.2% 8.4% 6,529.20 4,231.51 5,123.95 10.7% 28.4% 6.2% 5,609.75 3,289.79 12.5% 29.2% 5.1% 8.9% 2,710.50 3,599.57 30.9% 9.8% 52.9% 4.1% 2,954.53 3.2% 8.8% 51.8% 2,455.91 2.7% 8.5% 50.3% 2,276.71 2,009.67 8.4% 48.4% 45.5% 1,584.80 1,361.70 889.58 962.70 1,022.27 March March March March March March March March March March 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Current Account (` in billion) Term Deposit (` in billion) Retail Business Banking Overseas Savings Account (` in billion) Total (` in billion) Rural Loans Domestic Corporate & SME Total (` in billion)
NET WORTH CAPITAL ADEQUACY
19.16% 18.42% 19.12% 1,705.12 1.06% 0.81% 2.50% 16.89% 16.11% 18.06% 18.35% 1,475.09 1.80% 15.92% 1.39% 15.09% 14.72% 1,165.04 1,083.68 1,051.60 17.60% 16.80% 14.43% 13.39% 13.63% March March March March March March March March March March 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Net Worth (Equity Share Capital, Reserves and Surplus) Tier I Common Equity Tier 1 (` in billion) Tier II Total 4

--- Page 69 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
NII & NIM PROVISION COVERAGE RATIO
& NET NPA RATIO
474.66 77.7% 79.2% 75.7% 70.6% 389.89 332.67 3.96% 47.7% 270.15 230.26 3.73% 3.69% 4.8% 3.42% 3.23% 2.1% 1.4% 1.1% 0.8% FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 March March March March March 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Net Interest Income (NII) (` in billion) P rovision coverage ratio (specific provisions as a percentage of gross NPAs) Net Interest Margin (NIM) Net NPA Ratio (based on customer assets)
CORE OPERATING PROFIT STANDALONE NET PROFIT
383.47 233.39 313.51 268.08 161.93 220.72 189.39 79.31 67.77 33.63 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 FY2021 FY2022 Core Operating Profit (` in billion) Standalone Net Profit (` in billion) 5

--- Page 70 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
Fiscal 2022 was marked by a strong recovery in economic activities, bringing to the fore the inherent strengths in the Indian economy. Despite the setback from the Covid-19 pandemic earlier, and with variants of the virus and localised lockdowns during the year, the Indian economy was resilient and saw a strong rebound and progress towards normalcy. The recovery in the Indian economy was broad-based, and supported by the rollout of the vaccination programme. Amidst these positive developments, however, the year ended with new challenges of high energy prices and inflation, geopolitical tensions, supply side disruptions and a likely slowdown in global growth. Nonetheless, we remain
optimistic on India’s potential.
stayed committed to its was a further pointer to the effective risk management
framework adopted by the Bank over the last few years.
of the Bank’s success. Working as one team to serve
opportunities.
will differentiate the Bank and enable value-unlocking of
our franchise.
6

--- Page 71 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN
to the needs of customers with agility. The Bank’s mobile to the evolving technological developments and applications, iMobile Pay and InstaBIZ, have now become cybersecurity are priority areas of focus. The Board will universal and open architecture, enabling the Bank to continue to maintain integrity, fairness and transparency
expand the number of people and businesses that it can in our engagement with all our stakeholders.
and design customer digital journeys with speedy economies will have to tackle issues of inflation, monetary
time-to-market. The Bank’s competencies will only policy actions and tightening global liquidity conditions.
strengthen as it progresses on transforming from A slowdown in global economic growth seems inevitable
Bank to BankTech. in the immediate period, with likely spill over to India.
The Bank made further progress in the area of while seeking to maintain sustainable, risk-calibrated and
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG), with the profitable growth in business.
Board oversight on ESG by including it within the remit We would like to thank all our stakeholders and look
of the Risk Committee. Further, to understand the ESG forward to your continued support.
on the opportunities that would emerge within India’s
national goals and commitments.
and environmental sustainability, especially in rural and
remote areas, have yielded positive impact.
Bank’s response to opportunities and challenges and
evaluating the impact on the business and loan portfolio.
7

--- Page 72 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BOARD MEMBERS
Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Hari L. Mundra S. Madhavan Neelam Dhawan Non-Executive (part-time) Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Chairman Radhakrishnan Nair B. Sriram Uday Chitale Vibha Paul Rishi Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Sandeep Bakhshi Anup Bagchi Rakesh Jha Sandeep Batra Managing Director & Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director CEO (Designate)* KEY PERSONNEL Anindya Banerjee Ranganath Athreya Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee Board Governance, Remuneration & Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Uday Chitale, Chairman Nomination Committee Girish Chandra Chaturvedi, Chairman S. Madhavan Neelam Dhawan, Chairperson Radhakrishnan Nair Radhakrishnan Nair Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday Chitale B. Sriram Vibha Paul Rishi Anup Bagchi Credit Committee Customer Service Committee Fraud Monitoring Committee Sandeep Bakhshi, Chairman Vibha Paul Rishi, Chairperson Radhakrishnan Nair, Chairman Hari L. Mundra Hari L. Mundra S. Madhavan B. Sriram Sandeep Bakhshi Neelam Dhawan Anup Bagchi Anup Bagchi Sandeep Bakhshi Anup Bagchi Information Technology Strategy Risk Committee Stakeholders Relationship Committee Committee S. Madhavan, Chairman Hari L. Mundra, Chairman B. Sriram, Chairman Girish Chandra Chaturvedi Uday Chitale Neelam Dhawan Sandeep Batra Anup Bagchi Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra
* Will be inducted from date of RBI approval of his appointment.
8

--- Page 73 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MESSAGE FROM THE WHOLETIME DIRECTORS
In fiscal 2022, we continued to grow our core operating profit, within the guardrails of compliance and
risk while strengthening our deposit franchise and expanding our technology and digital offerings.
focus on 360˚ customer-centricity and internal collaboration enabled us to deliver customised
solutions in a seamless manner.
ecosystems. We have also focussed on strengthening the workforce by skilling and providing cross-
functional opportunities.
trusted financial services provider of choice for our customers and deliver sustainable returns to
our shareholders.
efficiency of our clients as well our own. In addition, our vast physical distribution network
enables us to understand their needs and offer improved solutions to them.
(Designate)
provide our customers with a transparent and best-in-class banking experience.
Sandeep Batra to strengthen our measures on cybersecurity, data protection and ensuring safe transactions for
Executive Director our customers. Our investment in technology is helping us to transform from a Bank to BankTech.
We remain committed to building a sustainable and responsible banking business to create
holistic value for all our stakeholders.
9

--- Page 74 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS MODEL
VISION MISSION
To be the trusted financial services provider of choice for our customers, To grow our risk-calibrated core operating profit by:
• Conducting our business within well-defined risk tolerance levels
CAPITALS
Our ability to maintain a strong balance sheet and enable business continuity, sustained growth and
FINANCIAL CAPITAL shareholder returns.
m
HUMAN CAPITAL
O
va u lu r
F
H
a o c u b o r m l m e f a u e p n r x e t h p
C
te e e a n r r p i t e i d t n w a e c l t o a e o r i
.
n
I
n n o ati o n L e v era ging Technology Customer-Centric ity M a e r, F a ir to
B
a n k ut r k p e Our ability to stay innovative and develop products e t
R
and services that provide superior experiences to our n o
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL customers.
s
P
a rtn financial inclusion ar k et e m
O
fin u a r n c c o ia m l e m c i o tm sy e s n te t m to w ac a c rd es s s s ib o l c e i a to l e a m
ll.
o-
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
For further details, please refer to the section on
NATURAL CAPITAL
O
r b e u u s s r o
S
i n u o f e r c o c s i c e s a u s
.
r
R
o e u m l g a h t in i o im n o s i u h s r i i n p g
C
o p a t p e h i r e t a a t l i i o o m n n p s p a a c a t g n e d o 5 n 2 th n r a o t u u g ra h l In te g rity C y b er Cross-fun I T n c e f t c o io h r n m n a o a l l
C
o tio g o n l y laboration Operat
O
i o n n a e l
B
a n k,
O
n e T e a m For further details, please refer to the section on Environmental Sustainability on page 58 10 11

--- Page 75 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS MODEL
VALUE DRIVERS OUTPUTS OUTCOMES
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Ensure a resilient balance sheet and strong capital levels • Core operating profit grew by 22.3% on y-o-y basis and profit after tax by 44.1% • Granular portfolio mix and 72% of loans, excluding rural and retail loans, to entities FINANCIAL • Maintain robust funding profile internally rated A- and above CAPITAL • Continue to strengthen portfolio quality Core Operating Profit: • Net NPA ratio decreased from 1.14% at March 31, 2021 to 0.76% at March 31, 2022 • Create value for shareholders `383.47 • Common Equity Tier 1 ratio of 17.60% at March 31, 2022 • Credit cost as percentage of average advances at 1.12% in fiscal 2022 • Contingency provisions of `74.50 billion at March 31, 2022 billion • Consolidated return on equity of 14.8% in fiscal 2022 in fiscal 2022
HUMAN CAPITAL
• Guided by ‘One Bank, One Team’ • Frontline teams reorganised to align with business strategy; new roles created like city • Enabling cross-functional collaboration business head HUMAN • Women comprised 31% of total employees at March 31, 2022 • Job rotation CAPITAL • 49 hours of learning per employee in fiscal 2022 • Continuous skill training and capability building • Delivering training in data science, design and technology to create a digitally capable team • Employee engagement • Strong industry-academia engagement to create a steady group of bankers with diverse skills
Profit After Tax:
`233.39 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• Transforming Bank to BankTech • Growth in digital transactions and digital sourcing of business during the year • Early adoption of emerging technologies enabling innovation billion • iMobile Pay for individuals and InstaBIZ for small businesses transformed to universal INTELLECTUAL apps, thus enabling access to non-Bank account holders • Partnership with fintechs CAPITAL in fiscal 2022 • Over three million Amazon Pay credit cards issued till March 31, 2022 • Focus on cybersecurity and data privacy • ICICI STACK for Corporates, Merchant STACK and solutions for e-commerce • Decongesting processes and improving customer experience ecosystems launched • Collaborating and co-creating innovative products with start-ups
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• A combination of physical and digital channels enabling • 12 ecosystem branches launched in Mumbai and Delhi during fiscal 2022 seamless service delivery • 152 branches added during the year MANUFACTURED • Strengthening digital capabilities for cost efficiency, Loans and Advances: • Decongested activities in client-facing channels by moving 250 services to the backend for processing CAPITAL process efficiency and enhancing customer experience `8,590.20 • 34% of mortgage sanctions, by volume, were end-to-end digital in fiscal 2022 • Core and supporting IT systems that billion are responsive and scalable at March 31, 2022
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• The ‘Orange Book’ series introduced for improving financial education and awareness • Engagement with customers, society and other stakeholders • Sustained improvement in Bank’s Net Promoter Score across products and services • Participating in development efforts through the SOCIAL AND • `2.67 billion spent towards corporate social responsibility initiatives; major focus on ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth water conservation and value chain development
RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• Empowering rural women entrepreneurs • Continuing support to self-help groups and promoting women entrepreneurship • Financial inclusion
Deposits:
`10,645.72
NATURAL CAPITAL
billion • Outstanding portfolio of about `73.80 billion towards sectors like renewable energy, • Supporting environment-friendly projects, subject to electric vehicles, green certified real estate, water and waste management and positive appropriate risk-return assessment impact sectors like khadi and handicrafts at March 31, 2022 NATURAL at March 31, 2022 • Focus on environment and climate related aspects further strengthened in risk • Efficient energy management in the Bank’s operations CAPITAL management; a Board-approved ESG Policy adopted • Use of renewable energy • 260 kWp of new renewable energy capacity added at the Bank’s premises during fiscal 2022 • Environment-friendly initiatives • Green certification of Bank’s premises increased to 3.09 million square feet or 23% of total area 12 13

--- Page 76 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
ICICI Bank’s objective is to grow the core operating profit in a risk-calibrated manner, based on the principles of ‘Fair to
Customer, Fair to Bank’ and ‘One Bank, One ROE’.
iMobile Pay - ICICI Bank's comprehensive mobile banking application provides convenient and quick
access to customers.
with a focus on granularity and saw healthy growth stable and healthy funding profile and competitive
across retail, small and medium enterprise and business advantage in cost of funds.
banking portfolios, and in current and savings account
deposits on a daily average basis.
14

--- Page 77 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
ICICI Bank aims to grow strategically by building platforms and offering seamless journeys to customers. Six value
drivers form the crux of the Bank’s strategy in delivering services to customers:
VALUE DRIVERS
A 360° Focus on Focus on Internal cross- Process Bank to BankTech customer- ecosystems micromarkets functional decongestion - Leveraging centric collaboration and operational technology and approach and external flexibility digital across partnerships businesses One-stop for Serving Building a Enhancing the Emphasis on Developing meeting all customers localised Bank’s ability to decongestion digital platforms banking needs and their understanding deliver services of processes that deliver of customers ecosystems of market by encouraging to improve seamless digital with a focus on requirements collaboration the customer journeys for risk and reward through within the experience all segments analytics and organisation and internal of customers developing and external efficiency backed by an efficient partnerships a robust distribution technology and resource architecture allocation strategy The Bank is investing in areas that are critical for principles of 'One Bank, One ROE', emphasising the need delivering enhanced customer experiences, boosting to maximise the Bank’s share of the target opportunity productivity and improving operational efficiency. across all products and services, and 'Fair to Customer, Enabled by technology, the Bank is focussing on Fair to Bank' emphasising the need to deliver fair value growing its share across all businesses by attracting new to customers while creating value for shareholders, will customers and deepening wallet share among existing continue to guide the Bank’s operations. Building trust customers. The Do-it-Yourself (DIY) digital solutions and with all stakeholders is critical to the Bank’s growth. The ‘Insta’ products combined with universalisation of mobile Bank is working to build a culture where every employee applications and 'Insta' products are accelerating the upholds these principles. The Bank aims to align the Bank’s reach across customer segments. organisation structure to emerging opportunities and enabling cross-functional collaboration, encourage a Along with business growth, the Bank is also maintaining culture of experimentation and build a service-oriented
a strong risk and capital management strategy and approach towards internal and external customers.
15

--- Page 78 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
FOCUS ON CUSTOMER-360
OMNI-CHANNEL EXPERIENCE ON DIGITAL AND PHYSICAL CHANNELS Product-Agnostic Client-Centric Adopting a solution- Building the distribution model oriented approach with client at the core Micromarket-Focussed Segment-Agnostic Aligned to the texture Right solution for customer not of the catchment dependent on team / segment A customer-centric approach is core to ICICI Bank’s thus taking the full bank to the customer. The Corporate efforts in creating delightful experiences for customers. STACK offers customised digital banking services to This has been enabled by adopting a solution-oriented companies in over 20 key industries. The four main pillars approach to meeting all financial needs of a customer of ‘ICICI STACK for Corporates’ include digital banking and designing solutions that are product and segment- solutions for companies; digital banking services for agnostic. The approach is to take the entire bank to the channel partners, dealers and vendors; digital banking customer and offer solutions for the customers and their services for employees; and curated services for
ecosystems. promoters and senior management.
account opening and instant overdraft facilities based on
FOCUS ON ECOSYSTEMS
point-of-sale transactions. Merchants can also perform instant reconciliation by using the Connected Banking During the year, the Bank launched 'ICICI STACK for services, which integrates banking with the merchants’ Corporates' offering comprehensive solutions to accounting system. The STACK also offers a digital corporates and their ecosystems, like channel partners, store management feature for invoicing, inventory and
dealers, vendors, employees and other stakeholders, collections management.
16

--- Page 79 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
APPROACH TO ECOSYSTEM
Analytics to Identify all Design Products Identify Stakeholders and Solutions Opportunities Add Product to Understand Leverage Customers and Customer Interlinkages Customers to Journey Bank The e-commerce ecosystem lends significant FOCUS ON MICROMARKETS opportunities for the Bank to offer digital solutions to customers and merchants selling their goods A key underpinning of the Bank’s customer-centric through e-commerce websites. The Bank introduced and service-oriented approach has been to develop ‘cardless EMI’ facility, which enables pre-approved a granular perspective on markets through use of customers of the Bank to convert their transactions data analytics and market intelligence. The granular into EMIs at the check-out section of the e-commerce profiling of markets has helped the Bank in delivering website or app. In another initiative, the Bank partnered value to customers in every segment. This research and with Amazon India and Flipkart to offer instant overdraft knowledge through analytics helps the frontline teams facility to their registered sellers with end-to-end digital to understand the markets in which they operate, and processing. Some key solutions offered to e-commerce plan localised strategies with tailored propositions for entities and their sellers include overdraft facility, customers. The insights from the micromarket analysis composite pay APIs enabling payments through multiple are used in conjunction with other factors for planning, channels, working capital, foreign currency fixed resourcing, channel and product alignment, capability
deposit and easy payment solutions. For customers of building and marketing and alliances.
to meeting the needs of corporate customers and bringing segments and also to establish alliances with locally
the entire bouquet of services of the Bank to these relevant partners who add value to our customers.
corporates and their ecosystem.
17

--- Page 80 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The combined levers of micromarket assessment DIGITAL PLATFORMS AND and digitisation have played a key role in driving SOLUTIONS growth and efficiency of branches. The Bank is now able to serve more customers at its existing branches and has enabled employees to perform more value- As the Bank progressed on its journey of Bank to added activities. ICICI Bank's network at March 31, 2022: BankTech, several digital innovations with rich features and functionalities and seamless access to digital channels 5,418 were launched during fiscal 2022. The Bank’s digital platforms have transformed to provide best-in-class end-to-end seamless digital journeys, with the ability to Branches offer personalised solutions, enable data-driven cross- sell and up-sell, onboard new customers, enable self- 13,626 service and provide value-added features. The open architecture platforms have enabled the Bank to extend ATMs
banking services even to non-ICICI Bank account holders.
Cash Acceptance Machines over 90% of financial and non-financial savings account
transactions.
Insta Banking Kiosks
CUSTOMISED SOLUTIONS
Internet Banking Trade Emerge iMobile Pay API Banking InstaBIZ FXOnline Merchant STACK CorpConnect 18

--- Page 81 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
iMobile Pay: Universal App for features introduced on iMobile Pay include 'Tap-to-Pay' Individuals which enables customers to make card payments without the need to carry a physical card, linking non- The Bank’s open architecture based mobile application for ICICI Bank credit cards in the app for payments, outward individuals, iMobile Pay, provides seamless transaction remittances and smart checkout. These features have led features and end-to-end digital journeys for savings to a significant increase in adoption of iMobile Pay. The account, personal loan, home loan, car loan, payments, Bank has recently introduced the outward remittances credit card, term life and health insurance and feature, 'Money2World', on the iMobile App for seamless investments. The feature ‘Pay to Contact’ enables users cross-border transfer of funds. The Bank now offers end- to automatically see the UPI IDs of their phone contacts to-end digital journeys for new-to-bank customers on and easily transfer money to any payment app or digital iMobile Pay for products such as credit cards, personal
wallet via UPI. The ‘Scan to Pay’ feature allows users loans, savings accounts and demat accounts.
to make bill payments by scanning the QR code. Other
ONE BANK FOR ALL CUSTOMERS | SEAMLESS JOURNEYS
6.3 million activations of iMobile Pay by non-ICICI Bank account
holders as of March 31, 2022.
19

--- Page 82 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
Digital Payments and Partnerships The Bank has continued to strengthen its position in million Amazon Pay credit cards were issued till end- the digital payments ecosystem by designing seamless March 2022. The Bank aims to provide 360˚ solutions journeys for customers, facilitating higher volumes of to the new-to-bank customers that have been acquired transactions and prompting recurrent digital transactions. through Amazon Pay credit cards. During fiscal 2022, the The volume of UPI person-to-merchant transactions Bank launched several co-branded credit cards to enable increased by 57.5% year-on-year in fiscal 2022 and customers to earn rewards and benefits. The growth in the value of these transactions was 2.3 times the value in credit card transactions was driven by higher activation fiscal 2021. rate through digital onboarding of customers, automated and effective portfolio management and diversification
The Bank has partnered with Amazon Pay and through commercial cards.
MakeMyTrip to offer co-branded credit cards. Over three
The Bank has launched several co-branded credit cards with strong value propositions to customers in fiscal 2022.
2.1 20.1% 17.6% 33%
times the value in in fiscal 2022 from as at March 31, 2022 from in fiscal 2022;
20

--- Page 83 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
iLens InstaBIZ: a Comprehensive Open-for-All Digital Platform for MSMEs During fiscal 2022, the Bank introduced iLens, an integrated, end-to-end digital lending solution for The Bank’s comprehensive mobile banking app
mortgages which covers all facets of the loan life cycle for businesses, InstaBIZ, offers a host of services.
starting from sales till disbursement including We have seen an increase in the engagement level of
property appraisal. It is a single interface for employees, business banking customers on the InstaBIZ app.
The Bank also introduced digital processing of home digital collection solutions like UPI ID and QR code and
loan applications for Non-Resident Indian (NRI) start collecting money from their customers immediately.
customers. For the NRI customers, the Bank has They can apply digitally for point of sale (POS) devices.
21

--- Page 84 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
account opening form and validate the identity of Bank aims to ensure a holistic approach to trade the merchant instantly. Through ‘InstaOD Plus’, customers fulfilment, and offers a unique competitive advantage of any bank can avail an overdraft (OD) up to `2.5 million because of the end-to-end coverage of the trade instantly. Customers of ICICI Bank can activate the OD into journey. Trade Emerge has been integrated with the their current account instantly, while customers of other Bank’s key flagship offerings, Corporate Internet Banking
banks can do so after opening of a current account with and InstaBIZ.
the Bank digitally by using Video KYC.
their ecosystems include digital platforms for domestic with the Bank’s platform through various modes for
and international trade and industry-specific solutions improving operational efficiency.
targeted at emerging businesses. With this, the the customer by providing operational efficiency and
DIGITAL VALUE CREATION FOR CORPORATES
Electronic Bill of Lading (e-BL) Trade Chain Cross-border transaction for select End-to-end blockchain large corporates solution for domestic trade 70% reduction in turnaround time
CORPORATE
Trade Emerge One-stop solution for STACK Corporate API Suite A bouquet of APIs for all trade needs corporate customers 200+ clients onboarded in fiscal 2022 Capital Market Ecosystem Enabling seamless onboarding and transaction for investors 22

--- Page 85 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
improved cash flow management. These embedded Under this facility, customers are eligible for transfers to solutions help the Bank to enhance customer satisfaction India in a shorter duration based on their eligible Equifax and improve wallet share. score compared to the internal criteria that was applicable earlier. On Outward Remittances, 'Money2World' has The Bank’s comprehensive array of solutions to meet been launched on iMobile App for seamless and ease in
the needs of customers and their ecosystems are transferring funds.
and powerful APIs that aim to impart convenience and
TRANSFORMING INTO BANKTECH
efficiency to our clients.
insurance digitally. The Bank also introduced mutual fund decision-making and creates value proposition for every
investment through iMobile Pay for NRI customers. customer.
functionality for offering instant express facility in the US with approximately 100 million financial and non-financial
for new customers through Equifax has been made live. transactions per day.
THE BANKTECH ARCHITECTURE
Customer Engagement Integration Layer Core Layer Platforms • Intelligent Automation • Data Platforms • Direct & Embedded • API Gateway • Enterprise Systems • Omni Channel • Micro-Services • Core Systems • Hyper-Personalisation • Digital Engagement Hub • Integrated CRM 23

--- Page 86 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
ROADMAP FOR TRANSFORMING FROM BANK TO BANKTECH
Customer Productivity Engagement Technology • Productivity and • One Bank One CRM Foundation Collaboration • Marketing Tools • Service-mesh Technology • Knowledge and Event-based Platform Revamp Management Architecture • Consolidation of Competency • Intelligent Data Platforms Loan Origination Engineering and Skilling Automation and Analytics Systems • Digital • Digital • Data Sciences • Enterprise Data Decoupling of Engagement Hub • Agile Lake on Cloud Core Platforms Methodology • DevSecOps • Design Thinking Adoption • Cloud and Artificial Intelligence As a part of the Bank’s technology strategy, it is creating The Bank has a dedicated data science and analytics an enterprise architecture framework across digital team that works across business areas on projects platforms, data and analytics, micro services based relating to business analytics, decision strategies, architecture, cloud computing, cognitive intelligence and forecasting models, machine learning, rule engines and other emerging technologies. This is based on the pillars performance monitoring. We maintain a comprehensive of scalability, modularity, flexibility and agility, resilience enterprise-wide data warehouse and employ statistical
and reliability, and creating delightful and digitally native and modelling tools for leading-edge analytics.
customer experiences to enable sustainable profitable
growth.
APIs for retail banking
redefining risks and opportunities in a dynamic manner.
time besides enabling increased capacity for handling
transaction volumes and customer requests.
24

--- Page 87 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
ENGAGING WITH START-UPS
Collaborate and Co-Create Innovative Products with Start-ups to Drive Transformation Aligned with the Bank's Digital Roadmap Encourage Employee Enhance Risk-taking Ability and Build a Culture of Innovation at Edges Experimentation Innovation FOCUS Customer Risk Payment Lending Enablers Experience Management
AREAS
In driving an innovation and start-up mindset, the solutions. The Bank has empowered frontline teams Bank has set up an Innovation Centre to collaborate to identify and leverage local opportunities. The drive with and invest in fintech startups and co-develop on technology has enabled the Bank to not just deliver products aligned with the Bank’s digital roadmap. improved customer experiences but also enhance The engagements with the startups are focussed on productivity and improve process efficiencies. A case in payments, digital lending, customer experience, risk point is the decongestion of the customer onboarding management and platforms. The Bank is also offering a process. The Bank has pursued the digitisation of Know- host of APIs and Software Developer Kits (SDKs) which Your-Customer (KYC) processes, and has been one of the facilitate third-party apps to offer payment solutions for early adopters of video-KYC. The Bank has introduced their retail customers. video-KYC across products such as savings account, credit cards, personal loans, mortgage, commercial cards, Banking services are increasingly omnipresent and education loan, travel card, current account and overdraft completely embedded into the customer journey, facility for proprietors and others. This has significantly which makes scalability, extensibility, security and reduced the time taken to onboard a customer. In addition, agility the cornerstones of development. At the same the Bank leverages the Central KYC Registry, which is time, new forms of risks such as social frauds and a central repository for KYC information of all customers
cyber threats are also a reality. In this context, the Bank of financial institutions, for onboarding customers.
us to respond to the changing dynamics in an agile
ONE BANK, ONE ROE
and responsive manner.
The principle of 'One Bank, One ROE', emphasises
BUILDING EFFICIENCIES
the need to maximise the Bank’s share of the target AND FLEXIBILITY opportunity across all products and services. This requires speed, agility and adaptability to the evolving With a view to effectively respond to customer business environment and a key enabler in this regard requirements, ICICI Bank continues to streamline is the Bank’s human capital. ICICI Bank has focussed on processes and creating innovative and value-adding strengthening the workforce by skilling and providing 25

--- Page 88 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
KEY AREAS OF BUSINESS
cross-functional opportunities. Job rotation enables employees to have a wider perspective of banking Retail products and services, and go beyond their defined roles
to spot opportunities for 360˚ customer experiences.
frictionless experience to customers by digitising the
entire underwriting process, with instant loan approvals.
For more details, refer to the Human Capital chapter
on page 46.
digital platforms and process simplification to provide a
seamless banking experience to customers.
ICICI Bank's ecosystem branch at Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai.
26

--- Page 89 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
ecosystem comprises rural entrepreneurs who are engaged in trading and manufacturing activities based out of commercial and industrial areas in the rural market dealing with both agri & non-agri related products. The rural ecosystem of corporates includes manufacturing
and processing units, employees, dealers and suppliers.
institutions working at the grassroot level in the rural
economy.
The Bank's product offerings in the rural markets include remote regions. There were over 3,300 ATMs in the rural
working capital loans for growing crops, financing of and semi-urban areas at March 31, 2022.
finance and auto and two-wheeler loans. The Bank also
and Relationship Capital on page 52.
provides consumption loans for low-income customers.
dealers/distributors of farm equipment, white goods, franking and digital signature-based document execution
and pharmaceutical manufacturers. The self-employed (Eazysign).
27

--- Page 90 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Bank’s focus in these businesses is on parameterised action and ensures healthy portfolio quality. The Bank and programme-based lending, which is granular and has further strengthened its underwriting process by well-collateralised. The SME and business banking integrating various digital tools like bank statement customers are offered a wide spectrum of solutions analyser, automatic fetching of bureau reports and addressing their evolving business needs such as enhanced business rule engine to generate probability customised offerings, faster turnaround time, transaction of default scores for score-based analysis into one single convenience and cross-border trade and foreign exchange ecosystem called 'Infinity'. A combination of qualitative products. Providing digital solutions is at the core of and quantitative assessment tools are utilised to arrive at
the engagement, with the range of solutions spanning the final credit decision.
customer onboarding, payments and collections, lending
and cross-border transactions.
and SME customers and creation of propositions for their franchise in the financial sponsors space with special focus
supply-chain financing needs. on private equity funds and their investee companies.
analyse and detect stressed cases which enables early treasury, bonds, commercial papers, channel financing,
supply chain solutions and various other activities.
year-on-year to `1,937.34 billion at March 31, 2022 and
accounted for 22.5% in the overall portfolio.
wealth banking, home loans, personal loans, vehicle loans,
SME and business banking customers.
etc. This approach has also reduced client acquisition cost.
28

--- Page 91 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY
Supply chain financing is an integral part and a focus The Bank continued to progress in its strategic objective area towards deepening our coverage of the corporate of reducing the non-India linked exposures in a planned ecosystem. The supply chain solutions CorpConnect manner. The non-India linked corporate portfolio reduced and DigitalLite enable corporates to seamlessly manage by 48.2% year-on-year or by USD 0.6 billion during
supply chain financing, payments, collection and fiscal 2022.
products and services for enhancing e-governance and
The Bank has extensively leveraged analytics to monitor financial management.
portfolio. The Bank has also focussed on reducing and ESIC dues can be done online through the Bank’s
concentration risks to make the portfolio more granular. platforms.
ICICI Bank’s international presence consists of branches implementing agencies through the Public Financial
in seven overseas locations and representative offices Management System (PFMS) of Government of India.
(IBU) in Gift City, and wholly-owned subsidiaries in the efficient release of Government of India scheme funds in
United Kingdom (UK) and Canada. ICICI Bank UK also has 28 states.
a branch in Germany.
strategic pillars, namely the NRI ecosystem comprising
deposits, remittances, investments and asset products;
Portfolio Investment (FPI) and Foreign Direct Investment
(FDI) route.
29

--- Page 92 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
The Bank’s philosophy of ‘Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank’ emphasises the need to deliver fair value to customers, including selling products and offer services which meet
societal needs and are in the interest of customers.
ICICI Bank is continuously seeking to create value across the customer life cycle through decongested delivery,
zero or low-touch operations and enhanced customer engagement.
In fiscal 2022, the Bank further progressed on its Cause Analysis, key customer service initiatives were
transition from a culture of customer satisfaction to a implemented.
30

--- Page 93 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
Some key initiatives taken during fiscal 2022 were:
experience. onboarding of cash management services and
• The account opening process for retail products trade.
(a single-page account opening form) was enabling more value-added engagement with
launched with minimal data entry, enabling quick customers.
and a seamless account opening experience. • Online Assist, an industry-first initiative, was
implemented for reversal of credit card charges.
application form collection and wet signature the credit to the customer’s account with zero
from the customer. human intervention.
enabling deposits, investments in mutual funds extended to 12 hours on all days compared to the
and auto recharge of FASTag. UPI services were earlier nine hours and only on weekdays.
also allows enhanced credit card controls, framework, which is based on Machine Learning/
converting multiple credit card transactions Deep Learning driven actions, was introduced.
into Equated Monthly Instalments (EMI) and This feature enables personalised customer
reissuing a blocked credit card. communication across four different life stages.
dashboard for NRI customers and digitisation customer’s transaction requirements in a fast
of mortgage servicing for 11 key services and seamless manner.
such as account summary, part payment, rate
conversion, and others.
of limit on count of NEFT transactions during
cut-off and holiday period.
31

--- Page 94 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
ICICI Bank’s value propositions for customers and the accessibility of the book, which is currently available endeavour to create a positive customer experience only in English, the Bank intends to launch it in regional
have led to a sustained improvement in the Bank’s Net languages across all digital channels.
through reliable information that is easily accessible. customers can choose products based on their life
To address this need, the Bank launched a unique stage needs.
personal finance and helps them to take better financial
CUSTOMER SERVICE AND
decisions. The Orange Book with a monthly readership of about 1.2 million, covers an array of financial topics GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL from investment planning, safe banking to tax savings, financial preparedness and much more. To improve the The Bank has developed an effective complaints handling mechanism for employees and customers. The mechanisms are defined through robust Board-approved FEBRUARY 2022 | VOL. 09 policies, and is governed through Board oversight and
reporting.
THE
ORANGE Customer experience is at the core of all engagement, and this includes ensuring that the products offered are based on an assessment of the customer’s financial needs and
BOOK
right-selling.
customers to complain including the branch, call centre
Togetherness and digital channels.
Committee of the Board and the Standing Committee
on Customer Service meet on a regular basis.
The February 2022 edition of The Orange Book. and the initiatives taken by the Bank for enhancing
customer service.
32

--- Page 95 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FAIR TO CUSTOMER, FAIR TO BANK
ICICI Bank complies with the 'Customer Rights Policy' across all jurisdictions. A set of principles have been which enshrines the basic rights of our customers. defined with respect to handling customer data. There is These rights include Right to Fair Treatment; Right a mechanism in place for reporting any form of personal to Transparency, Fair and Honest Dealing; Right to data incident which is accessible to all employees in Suitability; Right to Privacy; Right to Grievance Redress the Bank. The Personal Data Incident Handling Forum and Compensation. These policies can be accessed on (PDIHF) comprises of the Data Protection Officer (DPO) the Bank’s website. and senior members from the Information Security Group, Operational Risk Management Group, Fraud The Bank’s grievance redressal mechanism is Management Group, Human Resources, Compliance well-defined and comprehensive, with clear turnaround and the Legal Team. Any kind of personal data related times for providing resolution to customers. All complaints incidents reported through the service request undergoes received by the Bank are recorded in a Customer a detailed investigation and report of same is presented
Relationship Management (CRM) system and tracked for to PDIHF on a monthly basis.
the Standing Committee on Customer Service and the the Bank was reviewed by an international law firm and
Branch Level Customer Service Committees monitor strengthened last in fiscal 2021.
customer service at different levels.
Privacy regulations require the personal data of
During fiscal 2022, the number of complaints received customers to be protected throughout its entire life cycle.
personal data as ‘Confidential Information’, keeping record
For details on customer complaints, refer to page 238.
parties who are privy to personal data of the customers
DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY
and providing customers the option to exercise various rights which they enjoy under applicable data protection
ICICI Bank is committed to protecting the privacy of regulations and incident handling procedures.
applicable laws. It is important for employees and data and its protection to build awareness among
businesses to protect customer data and follow the our employees.
committed to ensuring compliance with applicable laws and Ethics covers guidelines on customer privacy and
across these jurisdictions. We have an integrated and confidentiality of data.
33

--- Page 96 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
VALUES AND CULTURE
The Bank places strong emphasis on ethics and integrity, and expects all employees to act in accordance with the highest professional and ethical standards upholding the
principles of integrity and compliance at all times.
ICICI Bank recognises the importance of establishing Laundering and other compliance-related areas that are
effective frameworks and supporting processes that critical and sensitive.
The Bank is committed to act professionally, fairly and Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, including providing
with integrity in all its dealings. The ICICI Group Code an annual self-declaration confirming their compliance.
of Business Conduct and Ethics provides the values, Periodic risk assessment of the policy is conducted, at
principles and standards that should drive decisions and least once in three years.
34

--- Page 97 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
VALUES AND CULTURE
adherence to regulations and adoption of best practices on The effective implementation of the policy includes a an ongoing basis. The Board-approved Group Compliance governance framework with roles and responsibilities of Policy lays down the compliance framework with the Board, MD & CEO and Executive Directors and the emphasis on ensuring that products, customer offerings Risk and Compliance Culture Council. All employees are and activities conform to rules and regulations and adheres encouraged to align with the guiding principles while
to the ethos of 'Fair to Customer, Fair to Bank'. conducting their activities.
evolving landscape, and acting in the best interest of all
stakeholders.
The Bank has identified five guiding principles for risk and compliance culture across the organisation:
35

--- Page 98 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
As a financial intermediary, ICICI Bank is exposed to various risks, primarily credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, technology risk, cyber risk, compliance risk, legal risk and reputation risk. The Bank is committed to managing material risks and participating in opportunities as part of the strategic approach of risk-calibrated growth
in core operating profit.
The Board of Directors of the Bank has oversight of all • I nformation Technology Strategy Committee:
critical IT systems performance and the review of
The roles of specific Committees of the Board constituted special IT initiatives.
to facilitate focussed oversight of various risks are:
Group Risk Management Framework. The Committee
also carries out Cyber Security Risk Assessment.
36

--- Page 99 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The Bank also has a group, namely, Financial Crime The Risk Management Group is further organised Prevention and Reputation Risk Management Group, into the Credit Risk Management Group, Market Risk overseeing/handling the fraud prevention, detection, Management Group, Operational Risk Management investigation, monitoring, reporting and awareness Group and Information Security Group. The Group is creation functions. headed by the Chief Risk Officer and reports to the Risk
Committee of the Board of Directors.
into a limit framework for various risk categories under the Bank, both at the policy and procedures level and
which various business lines operate. In addition to at the level of implementation by the respective groups.
presented to the Credit and Risk Committees as per the the Bank to assess the compliance to the regulatory
approved calendar of reviews. As a part of the reviews, guidelines.
The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process standards defined for management of the various risks in
(ICAAP) encompasses capital planning for a four-year the Bank.
relationship between risk and capital. The capital The Compliance Group and the Internal Audit Group
management framework is complemented by the risk report to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
processes, methodologies and frameworks established Groups have administrative reporting to the Executive
for the management of material risks. Stress testing, Director, responsible for Corporate Centre.
impact of extreme but plausible scenarios on the Bank’s
risk profile and capital position.
The independent groups for monitoring risks in the
Bank are:
Management Group
INDEPENDENT MONITORING OF RISKS IN THE BANK, DRIVEN BY:
37

--- Page 100 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
CYBERSECURITY GOVERNANCE
• Strong governance processes with segregation of
duties and stringent control framework.
in the safest and secure manner keeping in mind that • Skilled dedicated teams focussing on information
data protection for its customers is as important as security and financial crime prevention.
providing quality banking services across the spectrum.
The CIA triad of Confidentiality, Integrity, and Availability • A zero-trust architecture and network segmentation.
is at the heart of building a comprehensive information
security framework. The Bank also lays emphasis on • Global best-in-class security systems.
use protection and risk configuration ability in the hands of teams (IT Command Centre, next-generation Security
customers. The Bank also undertakes campaigns to create Operations Centre (SOC), Network Operations Centre).
banking through digital channels. • Stringent security and gating controls at the time of
inducting new applications or servers.
The key elements of the security strategy at ICICI Bank are:
• In-house Ethical Hacking (Red Teams) to continuously
• A multi-layered 'Defence-in-Depth' strategy providing test IT systems for security flaws.
multiple lines of defence.
The Bank undertook campaigns to create awareness among customers on security aspects.
38

--- Page 101 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
• Incident Response Plan and Crisis Management Plan structures and processes that help us in mitigation (including simulation of attack scenarios). of growing cybersecurity threats. Our cybersecurity governance encompasses management oversight at • A fully-equipped Disaster Recovery setup in place various levels with the ultimate responsibility assumed by
at remote location (periodic Business Continuity / the Board of Directors.
Disaster Recovery drills).
The Executive Committees have diverse cross-
• Periodic security assessments by reputed external functional members and well-defined terms of reference.
summary for the month is prepared which is reviewed by assessments are incorporated from time to time. The
the CISO and the Chief Risk Officer of the Bank. Bank’s data centre is ISO:27001* certified.
ICICI Bank has an information/cybersecurity governance *ISO:27001 is an international standard for information security
management.
framework consisting of leadership, organisational
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
BOARD SUB-
IT Strategy Risk Audit COMMITTEES Committee Committee Committee EXECUTIVE Information Information & Business Continuity Technology (IT) Cybersecurity Management (BCM)
COMMITTEES
Steering Committee Committee Steering Committee 39

--- Page 102 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
THE BANK’S CONTROLS FOR IT INFRASTRUCTURE
Preventive Control Detective Control Responsive Control • Application Security Life • Security Operation Centre • Incident Response Plan Cycle (ASLC), Vulnerability (SOC) Monitoring • Cyber Crisis Management Assessment and Penetration • Web Application Firewall Plan (CCMP) Testing (VAPT), Antivirus, • Network Operation Centre • Forensic Agreements with Vendor Risk (NOC) Monitoring Partners • Assessment, Firewall, • RED Teaming Exercises Intrusion Detection System
(IDS)
• Access Management • Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) Mitigation Considering the criticality and vitality of data protection (DDoS) attack drills for Internet Service Providers (ISPs), and security, the Bank has deployed Data Leakage/Loss social engineering-based attacks on data centre staff to Prevention (DLP) system with data protection rules for gain physical access etc. The Bank participates in cyber sensitive data exposure from the Bank’s endpoints, drills organised by the Institute for Development and emails and web gateways. The Bank has also deployed Research in Banking Technology (IDRBT) annually. The Digital Rights Management system to define access Bank conducts an external ‘Breach Assessment Exercise’ rights (Read/Write) with pre-defined validity and ensuring or a ‘Red Teaming Simulation’ on its infrastructure with the recipients use the data only for its intended purpose. a clear and precise focus on the crown jewels of the Bank. There is an ongoing reinforcement of vigilance and The Bank has made arrangements for all key activities awareness through ethical hacking exercises conducted to be performed in a work-from-home environment, on employees. Business continuity and recovery drills are through secure Virtual Private Network (VPN) and conducted to assess the Bank’s ability and readiness to Virtual Desktop Interface (VDI) and access provided combat disasters, to ensure continuity of critical business through Two-Factor Authentication. The Bank also performs processes at an acceptable level and limit the impact of
endpoint security posture testing while connecting to the the disaster on people, processes and infrastructure.
internet securely as per rules laid down by the Bank. programmes to enhance the level of cybersecurity
Further, Data Leakage/Loss Prevention (DLP) has been awareness among its customers and employees.
Bank’s policy. such as social media, internet banking website, ATM,
SMS, emails and posters in branches, among others.
cybersecurity attack simulation drills such as spear has also increased the overall cyber resilience of
phishing drills on employees, Distributed Denial of Service the Bank.
40

--- Page 103 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
ESG GOVERNANCE
In view of rapid digitation and growing cyber threats, it has become imperative to respond quickly and effectively when security incidents occur. As part of Long-term sustainable growth of the Bank’s business incident response, the Bank has a dedicated Cyber is a critical strategic objective. This is backed by our Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT). The incident commitment to adopt sustainable business practices that response process consists of distinct phases such ensure the long-term success of the organisation and have
as preparation, prevention, detection and escalation, a positive impact on the environment and society.
for ESG oversight to the Board Risk Committee of the
There were no material incidents of security breaches or Bank, in April 2022.
data loss during fiscal 2022.
ESG GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
Audit IT Strategy Committee Committee Board Governance, Board of Renumeration Directors Credit & Nomination Committee Committee Stakeholders Customer Service Relationship Risk Committee Committee Committee (ESG Oversight) CSR Fraud Monitoring Committee Committee Reporting by team headed by Group CFO Risk Committee Group Chief Group Chief Human Chief Risk Financial Officer Resource Officer Officer Head - Investor Business Corporate Social Customer Relations & Strategy Heads Responsibility Head Operations Steering Committee Chaired by Group Chief Financial Officer (CFO) (Representatives of various functions) 41

--- Page 104 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
RISK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
RESPONDING TO CLIMATE CHANGE RISKS
ICICI Bank’s Board has acknowledged the need to address the impact of climate change risks. The Bank is
committed to creating a positive impact through its businesses and addressing the challenges to the environment.
proposals. The framework stipulates environmental and social due diligence for projects above specific
thresholds. It has an exclusion list of industries not permitted for financing.
on the sector in which they operate and related maturity in terms of policies and processes deployed to
address these risks.
into the existing risk management framework. The Bank will be aligned to national goals and targets in the
nation’s collective transition to a low-carbon economy.
facilities. The Bank is working towards setting a time-bound quantitative target for reduction in emissions/
reduction in emissions intensity/carbon neutrality.
42

--- Page 105 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGING RISKS IMPACTING OUR BUSINESS
ICICI Bank aims to continuously evaluate the various risks impacting its business, and develop strategies to monitor and manage these risks, while meeting the objective of
risk-calibrated growth and long-term sustainability.
mitigants for managing significant risks. The Bank has portfolio, and manage these risks as part of the credit
recently initiated steps to embed climate risk assessment evaluation process.
ECONOMIC RISK
KEY RISKS IN FISCAL 2022 OUR RESPONSE
Fiscal 2022 was a challenging year as incidences The Bank has been closely monitoring developments of increase of Covid-19 infection continued during in the global and Indian economy, including country the year. While the economic outlook improved, risk and sector-specific risks. The Bank does uncertainties continued as geo-political events, not have any direct exposure to Russia, and is particularly the Russia-Ukraine crisis and rise in global continuously evaluating the likely second-order impact
crude oil and commodity prices impacted domestic of the crisis.
economic parameters.
CREDIT RISK
KEY RISKS IN FISCAL 2022 OUR RESPONSE
The continuing Covid-19 pandemic and economic The Bank ensured effective risk management across developments made credit risk a key focus for the business segments, strengthened by ongoing Bank during the year. reviews for early identification and stress testing. The Bank’s net non-performing assets decreased from
1.14% at March 31, 2021 to 0.76% at March 31, 2022.
reduced from 1.75% in fiscal 2021 to 1.12% in
fiscal 2022.
positions, which were significantly above regulatory
requirements.
43

--- Page 106 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGING RISKS IMPACTING OUR BUSINESS
MARKET AND LIQUIDITY RISK
KEY RISKS IN FISCAL 2022 OUR RESPONSE
Movements in interest rates, foreign exchange The Investment Policy, Asset Liability Management rates, credit spreads and equity prices remained Policy and Derivatives Policy, approved by the Board largely stable during fiscal 2022. However, tightening of Directors, govern the treasury activities and the
monetary policy and exchange rate movements are associated risks and contain the limits structure.
short-term in nature, and banks face the risk of asset- Market Risk Management Group which recommends
liability mismatches if not rolled over by depositors. changes in policies, processes and methodologies.
Building a strong liability franchise is a core strategic
focus for the Bank.
CYBER RISK
KEY RISKS IN FISCAL 2022 OUR RESPONSE
There has been an increase in ransomware risk The Bank has been investing on building resilience globally in recent years. In a digital economy, and responding effectively to cyberattacks. The the Bank also leverages partnerships with third Bank has laid significant focus on data privacy and parties and these could also be sources of information data loss prevention mechanisms and continued to security risk. make progress in fiscal 2022. There were no material incidents of security breaches or data loss during
fiscal 2022.
TECHNOLOGY RISK
KEY RISKS IN FISCAL 2022 OUR RESPONSE
The growing customer dependence on digital The Bank’s focus on technology and the transactions and increasing volumes of such transformation journey of Bank to BankTech has transactions requires banks, including us, to focus enabled it to respond to the changing technological on the availability and scalability of our systems. dynamics in an agile and responsive manner. The Misalignment between business and IT strategies Information Technology Strategy Committee, which is also a formidable risk. is a Board-level Committee, ensures that information technology strategy is aligned with the business strategy and with appropriate policies and control frameworks. The Bank’s IT systems remained stable and service delivery was largely uninterrupted during
fiscal 2022.
44

--- Page 107 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGING RISKS IMPACTING OUR BUSINESS
EMPLOYEE RISK
KEY RISKS IN FISCAL 2022 OUR RESPONSE
The ability to attract, motivate and retain talented The Bank’s human capital strategy is based on key professionals and the availability of skilled value propositions of fair compensation policy,
management is critical for the successful learning and growth, empowerment and care.
drives for employees and their immediate family
during the year.
COMPLIANCE RISK
KEY RISKS IN FISCAL 2022 OUR RESPONSE
The Bank’s compliance with regulatory The Bank is committed to ensuring compliance requirements and changes is a key priority for the with regulations and laws, and proactively monitors Bank. Failure to comply with applicable regulations these developments. The Bank has put in place could lead to inquiries or investigations by well-articulated policies and controls to ensure regulatory and enforcement authorities either against compliance. The Bank seeks to have a strong the Bank, or employees, its representatives, agents compliance culture driven by the organisation’s and third-party service providers. leadership. This would help in building stakeholder confidence and trust, and also ensure timely action to
mitigate associated reputational risks.
45

--- Page 108 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
HUMAN CAPITAL
One of the shifts in ICICI Bank’s operating model in recent times
has been the adoption of ‘One Bank, One Team' as a guiding factor.
for capturing market share, serving customers and growing
profitably within the guardrails of risk and compliance.
by key value propositions of learning and growth, Defined Roles
empowerment, fair compensation policy, and care.
teams to be agile in responding to requirements of is imperative for employees to have a wider perspective
customers, and work together to create innovative and and knowledge of all banking products.
experiential products for customers.
selective market hiring
CREATING
New-age Skills FUTURE Robust Internal Academies
CAPABILITY
Focus on data sciences and Focus on skilling through practice, technology, in-campus and market strong behavioural programme architecture Train for Skill Access to Global Programmes Developmental programmes on Co-created, focus on N=1 identified future competencies 46

--- Page 109 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
HUMAN CAPITAL
CAPABILITY BUILDING ACADEMIES
Small & Medium Enterprises Retail Academy Digital Academy Group Academy Wholesale Banking Academy Transaction Banking Academy Behavioural Academy Operations Academy Credit Academy Debt Service Management Group Academy Risk Academy Audit Academy The Bank believes in building talent by identifying academic councils, consisting of business leaders. This individuals with potential and attitude for growth, and council meets on quarterly basis to review alignment providing them with opportunities to acquire necessary of skilling content with evolving business needs. The knowledge and skills. This focus is across levels, from inputs and feedback discussed in the session are those beginning their journey with ICICI Bank to various implemented in the respective programmes as a part of
levels up to the senior management. the content update.
In order to periodically review and align the learning to the culture of ICICI Bank and to impart functional
content and structures, ICICI Bank has structured knowledge in banking and related subjects.
INDUSTRY-ACADEMIA INITIATIVES
ICICI Bank Post Graduate ICICI Business Probationary Officers Programme in Leadership Programme - Programme Relationship Management Post Graduate Certificate 12 months programme 21 days programme in Securities Markets designed to develop designed to develop a cadre a pool of first-level of banking professionals 12 months programme managers with banking adept in sales and designed to develop knowledge and relationship professionals required management for securities skill sets ASCEND ICICI Young Leaders markets Programme Programme (YLP) - Post Graduate Diploma in One month Business Management programme for graduates from 12 months career top-tier institutes acceleration programme for employees 47

--- Page 110 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
HUMAN CAPITAL
Building a Digitally Capable Workforce
DIGITAL ACADEMY STRUCTURE
TECHNOLOGY DATA SCIENCE DESIGN
• C loud Computing • Data Sciences For • UI/UX Training Practitioners • P roject Management • Design Thinking • Functional Data • A PI and Micro Services Sciences Programme • D evOps • Advance Data • D ata Engineering Sciences Programme • I nformation and • Data Story-Telling Cybersecurity • PRISM for Data • P RISM for Technology and Information Security
EMPOWERMENT
In line with the vision of moving towards a scalable, future-ready and data-driven organisation, the Bank has geared up for transformational change with the The current business environment demands speed, implementation of advanced technologies in streamlining agility and adaptability by an organisation. The Bank’s its systems and processes. To meet this objective, ICICI focus is to create a responsive workforce, encouraged Bank has curated a learning plan to cover technology, by empowering the teams to take cues from the local data, information security and design skills ensuring right environment and identify local opportunities for risk- combination of functional, technical, process-based, calibrated growth. The Bank encourages its employees professional and cultural anchors. to experiment and innovate to create service and solutions for customers within the guardrails of risk During fiscal 2022, the Bank started the PRISM and compliance. The Bank has created a role-based programme that aims to train and develop young talented leadership structure to encourage micro-experiments engineers who wish to pursue careers in the technology with the objective of taking successful models to the larger and data sciences function of the Bank. PRISM has markets. The corporate office functions as service centre
been designed to develop a pool of managers with the and the job of the central team is to serve the employees.
Bank to BankTech. The programme has an extensive focus up challenging assignments and responsibilities early in
on hands-on exercises through virtual labs, projects and the career.
assessments.
48

--- Page 111 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
HUMAN CAPITAL
Diversity and Inclusion CARE Response to Covid ICICI Bank has always encouraged diversity in its workforce and gender sensitivity is inherent to its human capital strategy. The Bank's philosophy of meritocracy Banking being an essential service during the Covid–19 and equal opportunity in its people decisions led to pandemic, the Bank had to ensure continuity in its a large number of leadership positions being held by services to customers while ensuring the safety and well- women over the last two decades. Conscious of the life being of all employees. Covid-19 related protocols of stage needs and safety of women employees, a range of social distancing and sanitisation were followed across benefits and policies have been curated. The Bank has every location. The Bank put mechanisms in place to a liberal leave policy for women employees, which was ensure that emotional, medical and physical support
established much ahead of its time. were provided to the employees on a real-time basis.
EMPOWERING WOMEN EMPLOYEES During the pandemic, ensuring safety and employee
protection from the Covid-19 virus was a prime focus.
ICICI Bank employees and dependents, but also all other
service partners.
Leave Leave Leave
Vaccination drive conducted by ICICI Bank for its employees.
49

--- Page 112 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
HUMAN CAPITAL
Quick Response Team The Bank is an equal opportunity employer and seeks to ensure that the workplace is free of any kind of ICICI Bank has a Quick Response Team (QRT) to assist harassment or inappropriate behaviour. Comprehensive employees if they are in any distress. Each QRT is a GPS- policies and procedures have been laid down to create enabled vehicle, equipped with a stretcher and other an environment where there is respect and dignity equipment, and a team trained to deal with medical and in every engagement. Sexual harassment cases are personal safety related emergencies. handled as per the guidelines set under the Prevention of Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, 2013. The Bank has created Employee Connect and Engagement awareness about the Act through mandatory e-learnings at the time of induction. The Bank also regularly Employee self-services, managing leaves, managing communicates with employees regarding the mechanism financials, taxes, transfers and reimbursements and for raising complaints and the need for right conduct by other benefits are addressed through the usage of all employees. The Bank has a mechanism for dealing technology. Areas that require high human touch with complaints of harassment. The policy ensures that including employee engagement and counselling and all such complaints are handled promptly and effectively discussion around career development, are addressed with utmost sensitivity and confidentiality, and are through personal discussion. resolved within defined timelines. For other workplace issues, the Bank has a robust mechanism to resolve them and the Call@I-Care provides employees with a platform
to raise such concerns.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
Communication Coffee & New Joinee My Wellness Meetings Conversations Engagement Hub The Bank's leadership Managers engage with Engagement sessions UOTM hosts a regularly conducts their teams frequently conducted frequently dedicated section on communication to induct new hires to wellness, focussing on meetings to articulate the Bank's systems, physical and emotional cultural anchors and processes and culture well-being
business direction.
50

--- Page 113 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
HUMAN CAPITAL
Digital@HR The Universe on the Move (UOTM) platform has evolved into a comprehensive business tool that is
a companion across the entire employee life cycle.
and reporting of specific tabs/icons/videos for
analytics and product enhancements.
51

--- Page 114 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
ICICI Bank is cognizant of its role towards ensuring a stable
financial system and fostering value creation for all stakeholders.
An important factor in the Bank’s value creation for its The Bank has identified the following top 13 material
stakeholders is to have a meaningful engagement and be issues:
02 Digital innovation/transformation
communities and banking associations to remain informed.
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
03 Data privacy and cybersecurity To deepen our commitment towards building a responsible and sustainable business, ICICI Bank appointed an external agency to conduct its first 04 Corporate governance and business ethics materiality assessment exercise to identify key topics
that stakeholders believe were relevant for the Bank.
The approach for assessing material issues involved the
following steps:
08 Financial performance
engagement.
communities. Similarly, internal stakeholders were succession planning
members from the management and employees.
information from stakeholders to prioritise the list of 13 Promoting environment positive projects
identified ESG topics.
52

--- Page 115 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
STAKEHOLDER MODE OF ENGAGEMENT AREAS OF IMPORTANCE BANK’S RESPONSE Customers • Interaction with • Convenience • Being fair to the customer and to employees the Bank is a core element of the • Responsive, skilled and Bank’s approach • Structured surveys considerate staff for seeking feedback • Ensure right-selling of products • Availability of relevant (Net Promoter Score, products and services • Dedicated customer service team Customer Satisfaction focussed on improving process Surveys) • Quick resolution of efficiency, reducing customer queries, requests raised • Customer meets effort and leveraging technology and grievance redressal organised at branches to enhance customer experience and response time • Customer communication through • Continuous upskilling and print, digital and social knowledge building of staff media • Policy of zero tolerance to • Multiple channels unethical conduct by employees available for raising queries and grievances Shareholders/ • Annual General Meeting • Shareholder value • Continued interaction with Investors creation investors during the year and also • Emails and periodic held digital interactive sessions meetings • Medium and long-term strategy • Communicating on strategic • Conference calls objectives during the quarterly • Governance and ethical • Investor conferences results call with investors and practices increased disclosures • Analyst day • Compliance • Non-financial disclosures included • Transparency in the Annual Report • Disclosure of non- • Board-approved Environmental, financial metrics Social and Governance (ESG) pertaining to sustainability Policy with oversight on ESG with the Board Risk Committee; policy disclosed on the Bank’s website 53

--- Page 116 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
STAKEHOLDER MODE OF ENGAGEMENT AREAS OF IMPORTANCE BANK’S RESPONSE Employees • Continuous engagement • Philosophy of ‘Fair to • Job rotation and going beyond across employee Customer, Fair to Bank’ defined roles segments and business and ‘One Bank, One Team’ • Responsibilities given to young • Periodic communication • Risk and compliance professionals meetings anchored by culture • Focussed leadership and career senior leaders • Enabling work culture mobility • iCare, an online portal with opportunities for • Covid vaccination drive for for employees to raise growth and learning employees and their dependent queries • Culture of family members • Universe on the Move experimentation • Support to employees through – a one-stop digital • Meritocracy other networks like Quick platform for employees Response Team (QRT) in case of • Responsive grievance • Branch visits by senior medical emergencies handling process leaders • Care for employees through leave policies catering to their different needs including life stage needs • Digital, functional and behavioural learning opportunities for employees Regulators • Periodic meetings with • Fair treatment of • Strengthening risk and regulatory bodies customers and grievance compliance culture among all redressal employees • Participation in policy forums • Anti-money laundering • A dedicated team for and fraud risk communicating with regulators • Other forms of and responding in a time-bound communication like • Operational risk including manner emails, letters etc. IT and cybersecurity risk • Well-defined processes and • Supervisory meeting leveraging technology in responding to regulators • The Bank continuously engages with the regulator and provides inputs on regulatory policies Society • ICICI Foundation for • Contributing to social • Met the CSR requirement for fiscal Inclusive Growth (ICICI development 2022 under the Companies Act, Foundation) 2013 • Financial literacy and • Rural development improving access • Focus on livelihoods, health initiatives to financial services infrastructure, social and especially in rural areas environmental projects through • Supporting government the ICICI Foundation initiatives • Industry-academia partnerships for developing skills for the banking sector Note: The listing of areas of importance are not as per the order of importance to the stakeholder 54

--- Page 117 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
SOCIAL INITIATIVES OF ICICI BANK
STRATEGIC PILLARS THAT GUIDE ACTIVITIES OF ICICI FOUNDATION Shortage Surplus Inclusion Environment Inclusion of Environment Addressing Economically landless and conservation shortage of a managing surplus marginalised and promoting commodity/skill of a commodity in sustainability a local area With a purpose-driven approach, the Bank has been of implementing the project in rural schools was also
playing a role in creating meaningful social impact. to educate school children about rainwater harvesting.
`2.67 billion towards CSR activities. like Marathwada and Bundelkhand, that are drought
prone regions.
products, imparting skill training in smart agricultural
practices, and others.
Some key activities of ICICI Foundation in fiscal 2022
were as follows:
across 1,700 rural government schools. Apart from
Maharashtra.
55

--- Page 118 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Healthcare improve the shelf life of the local produce. Naming Following the Covid-19 pandemic, an important area few projects in this area included the food processing that drew attention of the Bank and ICICI Foundation unit at Udaipur in Rajasthan, oilseed value chain at was to fortify the health infrastructure of the country. Keonjhar in Odisha, value-added milk products at Beed
During fiscal 2022, varied efforts were made in this in Maharashtra, and jackfruit value chain at Kerala.
direction. To specifically address the requirements In the area of animal husbandry, ICICI Foundation has
for Covid-19 healthcare, several health equipment undertaken projects in livestock value chains.
the agriculture and animal husbandry sectors. This tree plantation, and has planted over one million trees till
involved setting up food processing units at several March 31, 2022.
locations for processing the surplus production to
Women beneficiaries at the jackfruit processing unit in Kuzhur village, Thrissur district, Kerala.
56

--- Page 119 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Skill Training for Livelihood comprehensive suite of banking products, including zero- ICICI Foundation conducts three flagship programmes balance savings account and term loans, for meeting the for skill training. The ICICI Academy for Skills operates business requirements of the women of these SHGs is 28 skill training centres in 21 states/union territory. provided. Services are offered at their doorstep, thus
These Academies are providing industry-relevant, job- saving their time and money on visits to the branch.
20 satellite centres in Rajasthan. These centres provide government organisations called Self-Help Promoting
skills based on the local market requirements. Institutions (SHPIs).
the Bank reaches out to about 1.3 million customers
through microfinance institutions.
companies that are providing financial services to the rural
population.
Beneficiaries of custard apple plantation drive by
and enables these account holders to transact digitally.
ICICI RSETI, Udaipur.
57

--- Page 120 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
ICICI Bank has made significant strides in fiscal 2022 towards further embedding environmental priorities in its business and
own operations.
ICICI Service Centre in Bandra-Kurla Complex, Mumbai, has been awarded a 'Platinum' rating by Indian Green
Building Council (IGBC).
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) matters firm was appointed to review the ESG practices at the
are becoming increasingly relevant for companies across Bank, and recommend steps to strengthen the same.
The Bank has been making efforts in these areas process and ensuring environmental sensitivity in the
through various initiatives. In fiscal 2022, a consulting Bank’s own operations.
58

--- Page 121 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
RESPONSIBLE FINANCING
monitoring. The Bank will align its efforts with the nation’s ICICI Bank is committed to supporting the nation’s commitments and efforts towards transitioning to a low- transition to a low-carbon economy and contribute carbon economy. As the understanding on climate risk towards sustainable growth. The Bank has emphasised is still evolving, the Bank has formulated an approach to financial inclusion and has developed digital products address risks emanating from climate change, as part and strategies to improve access to finance for segments of a Climate Risk Management Framework. The scope like Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and the of the framework comprises assessment of impact of unbanked rural areas. Lending to sustainable sectors, climate change on the Bank’s own operations, climate risk like renewable energy, is another focus area subject to management of the Bank’s loan book and integration of appropriate assessment of risks and returns. At March material climate risks into the existing risk management 31, 2022, the Bank's outstanding portfolio to sectors framework. The framework will be periodically reviewed
like renewable energy, electric vehicles, green certified for aligning with regulatory guidance on climate risks.
Consideration of ESG in the Bank’s lending decisions core team within the risk management group during
and risk management framework are important factors fiscal 2022.
the introduction of the social and environmental
THE BANK’S OPERATIONS
management framework that integrates analysis of environmental and social risks into the overall credit appraisal process. The key elements of the assessment ICICI Bank continued to make progress in rationalising include an exclusion list, seeking a declaration from the use of natural resources and developing strategies borrowers of compliance with applicable national for improving energy efficiency and adoption of green
environmental guidelines/approvals for qualifying practices.
proposals subject to threshold criteria defined in the
framework, and due diligence by a Lender’s Independent Few key activities undertaken during the year were:
as part of the credit evaluation process. Borrower ESG million square feet in fiscal 2021 to 3.09 million square
scores from external agencies are considered during the feet in fiscal 2022.
climate-related physical and transition risks that a added during fiscal 2022, taking the cumulative
borrower in the sector could be exposed to. A response renewable energy installed capacity to 3,174 kWp.
borrowers, based on their ESG-related risks and maturity agreements. Around 7% of energy consumption in
in terms of policies and processes deployed to address fiscal 2022 were from renewable sources.
maintenance requirements of critical equipment at
Climate change and its impact on the economy and branches and offices.
59

--- Page 122 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
23% GHG EMISSIONS
of total area green certified The Bank appointed TUV India Private Limited to conduct an independent limited assurance of the Bank’s Scope 12 24˚Celsius
and Scope 23 emissions in fiscal 2022.
Energy consumption of
from 1.38 tCOe4 in fiscal 2021 to 1.36 tCOe in fiscal 2022.
The Bank did not purchase carbon credits and related
instruments during the year.
ICICI Bank’s GHG emissions in its own operations in fiscal
2022 were:
occur from sources owned or controlled by an organisation. For
instance, fuel-led emissions from boilers, furnaces, vehicles, etc.
an organisation’s GHG inventory as they are generated for use
by the organisation.
4 tCOe - Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent.
A rooftop solar plant installed at ICICI Bank's
regional office on Bund Garden Road in Pune.
60

--- Page 123 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DDIRIERCETOCRTS’ ORERPOSR’T REPORT
Your Directors have pleasure in presenting the Twenty-Eighth Annual Report of ICICI Bank Limited (ICICI Bank/the Bank)
along with the audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2022.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
The financial performance for fiscal 2022 is summarised in the following table:
Profit after tax 161.93 233.39 44.1%
1 Includes profit of ` 36.70 billion from sale of shareholding in subsidiaries in fiscal 2021.
Consolidated profit after tax and minority interest 183.84 251.10 36.6%
APPROPRIATIONS
The profit after tax of the Bank for fiscal 2022 is ` 233.39 billion after provisions and contingencies of ` 159.11 billion (including provision for taxes of ` 72.69 billion). The accumulated profit is ` 543.48 billion, taking into account the balance of ` 310.09 billion brought forward from the previous year. Your Bank has a consistent dividend payment history. Your Bank’s dividend policy is based on the profitability and key financial metrics, capital position and requirements, and the regulations pertaining to the payment of dividend. The Board of Directors has recommended a dividend of ` 5.00 per
equity share for the year ended March 31, 2022 and has appropriated the disposable profit as follows:
2018 to Capital Reserve. Accordingly, during Q1-2022, the Bank transferred an amount of `15.09 billion from Balance in Profit and
Loss account to Capital Reserve.
profit for the year less mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of the HFT
and AFS portfolio. The Bank can draw down balance available in IFR in excess of 2% of its AFS and HFT portfolio.
3 R epresents transfer from IFR to Balance in Profit & Loss Account.
4 I ncludes transfer of accumulated balance amounting to ` 0.08 billion maintained in Reserve Fund under Sri Lankan Banking Act
No. 30 of 1988 to Balance in Profit & Loss account due to closure of the Branch.
of dividends by banks (Revised)’ had directed that banks shall not make any dividend payment on equity shares from the profits
pertaining to fiscal 2020. Accordingly, the Bank did not declare any dividend for fiscal 2020.
61

--- Page 124 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Bank prepares its financial statements in accordance in Schedule 8 of the financial statements as per the
with the applicable accounting standards, RBI guidelines applicable provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
separately reviews asset classification and provisioning your Bank had following subsidiaries (15) and associate
of credit facilities given by the Bank to its borrowers. (9) companies:
Limited
supervisory process for fiscal 2021.
Company Limited
PARTICULARS OF LOANS, GUARANTEES OR
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited 50.80
INVESTMENTS
Pursuant to Section 186(11) of the Companies Act, 1 I CICI Securities Holdings, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of
ICICI Securities Limited.
Act, 2013, except sub-section (1), do not apply to a
Securities Holdings, Inc.
banking company in the ordinary course of business. The is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
particulars of investments made by the Bank are disclosed Company Limited.
62

--- Page 125 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
the Bank’s consolidated financial statements included Name of the Associate Company % of shares in this Annual Report incorporate the accounts of its held
subsidiaries and other consolidating entities.
Company Limited
SIGNIFICANT AND MATERIAL ORDERS
I-Process Services (India) Private Limited 19.00 PASSED BY THE REGULATORS OR COURTS NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and 18.79 OR TRIBUNALS IMPACTING THE GOING Insurance Training Limited CONCERN STATUS OF THE COMPANY AND
ITS FUTURE OPERATIONS
ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 19.01 There are no significant and/or material orders passed by India Infradebt Limited 42.33 the regulators or courts or tribunals impacting the going Arteria Technologies Private Limited 19.98
concern status or future operations of the Bank.
regional lockdown measures in various parts of the
HIGHLIGHTS OF PERFORMANCE OF
country. The lockdown measures were lifted gradually,
SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND
as the second wave subsided from June 2021 onwards.
JOINT VENTURE COMPANIES AND
The impact of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic in
THEIR CONTRIBUTION TO THE OVERALL
December 2021-January 2022 was mild, though it had
PERFORMANCE OF THE COMPANY
led to re-imposition of some localised/regional restrictive The performance of subsidiaries and associates and their measures. During fiscal 2022, there was significant contribution to the overall performance of the Bank as progress in the vaccination programme, with 1.84 billion on March 31, 2022 is given in “Consolidated Financial vaccine doses administered till March 31, 2022, including Statements of ICICI Bank Limited - Schedule 18 - Note 23 million precautionary doses. Currently, while the 12 - Additional information to consolidated accounts” number of new Covid-19 cases have reduced significantly of this Annual Report. A summary of key financials and the Government of India has withdrawn most of the of the Bank’s subsidiaries is also given in “Statement Covid-19 related restrictions, the future trajectory of the Pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013” of pandemic may have an impact on the results of the Bank
this Annual Report. and the Group.
the Bank. As required by Accounting Standard 21 (AS-21) dependents, but also service partners including security
issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, guards and IT support personnel.
63

--- Page 126 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Bank continues to see opportunities to grow and approval of Members. The Members through postal ballot strengthen its franchise. A range of digital products on March 27, 2022 approved the appointment of Vibha and services were launched during fiscal 2022. The Paul Rishi as an Independent Director for a term of five Bank launched ‘ICICI STACK for Corporates’ which consecutive years commencing from January 23, 2022 to
offers comprehensive solutions to corporates and their January 22, 2027.
to withdrawal of nomination by the Government of India
value-added services to retailers, online businesses and through its notification dated August 18, 2021.
banking app for small and medium enterprise customers,
Director of the Bank with effect from January 23, 2022.
was a significant increase in adoption of iMobile Pay from
dtd-21-Jan-22.pdf.
customers who do not have an account with the Bank.
infrastructure at hospitals by providing equipment and
outside the ICICI Group.
Foundation worked extensively in supporting the efforts to
guidance provided by the Directors.
held on August 20, 2021 approved the re-appointment
MATERIAL CHANGES AND COMMITMENT
of Anup Bagchi as Wholetime Director (designated as AFFECTING FINANCIAL POSITION OF THE Executive Director) for a period of five years or date of BANK retirement, whichever is earlier, effective from February 1,
There are no material changes and commitments affecting 2022, subject to the approval of Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
the financial statements relate and the date of this Report. of the Bank for a period of three years with effect from
For the impact of Covid-19 on the performance of the Bank February 1, 2022.
of five years effective from May 1, 2022 or the date of
DIRECTORS AND OTHER KEY MANAGERIAL
approval of his appointment by RBI, whichever is later.
PERSONNEL
The said appointment is also subject to the approval of Changes in the composition of the Board of Members. Approval of the Members is being sought for Directors and other Key Managerial Personnel Rakesh Jha’s appointment for five years in the Notice of
the forthcoming AGM through item nos. 9 and 10.
64

--- Page 127 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
approved the appointment of Anindya Banerjee as AUDITORS the Group Chief Financial Officer and Key Managerial Statutory Auditors
Personnel of the Bank with effect from May 1, 2022.
commencing from January 12, 2023 to January 11, statutory auditors to hold office from the conclusion
2026, subject to the approval of Members.
period of three years, subject to fulfilling the prescribed
the approval of Members.
(c) Re-appointment of Radhakrishnan Nair as an and KKC & Associates LLP, would be eligible for re-
Independent Director of the Bank for a second term appointment at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
& Associates and KKC & Associates LLP, will hold office
item nos. 6 to 8.
Financial Officer and Ranganath Athreya, Company
nos. 4 and 5.
Secretary are the Key Managerial Personnel of the Bank.
Declaration of Independence
made by the joint statutory auditors in the audit report.
Board, the Independent Directors fulfil the conditions
discharge of their professional obligation.
AGM and is eligible for re-appointment. Sandeep Batra and National Stock Exchange of India Limited at
has offered himself for re-appointment. www.nseindia.com.
65

--- Page 128 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Maintenance of Cost Records RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Being a banking company, the Bank is not required The Bank has a Board-approved Group Arm’s Length Policy to maintain cost records as specified by the Central which requires transactions with the group companies Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies to be at arm’s length. All the related party transactions between the Bank and its related parties, entered during
Act, 2013.
the year ended March 31, 2022, were on arm’s length
Reporting of Frauds by Auditors basis and were in the ordinary course of business.
and secretarial auditor under Section 143(12) of the Form No. AOC-2, pursuant to Rule 8(2) of the Companies
Companies Act, 2013 to the Audit Committee or the Board (Accounts) Rules, 2014.
of Directors.
Standard AS-18 are reported in note no. 46 of schedule
PERSONNEL
18 - Notes to Accounts of standalone financial statements The statement containing particulars of employees and note no. 2 of schedule 18 - Notes to Accounts of as required under Section 197(12) of the Companies
consolidated financial statements of the Bank.
inspection and any Member interested in obtaining
policies.page?#toptitle).
a copy of the Annexure may write to the Company
Secretary of the Bank.
ANNUAL RETURN
The Annual Return in Form No. MGT-7 will be hosted on
INTERNAL CONTROL AND ITS ADEQUACY
the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/ The Bank has adequate internal controls and processes
aboutus/annual.html).
Regulation 34 of the Securities and Exchange Board of
through various policies, procedures and certifications.
India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
The processes and controls are reviewed periodically.
at regular intervals for their design and operating Member interested in obtaining a copy of the Report may
effectiveness to ascertain the reliability and authenticity write to the Company Secretary of the Bank.
of financial information.
and Governance Report since fiscal 2020. The report for
DISCLOSURE UNDER FOREIGN EXCHANGE
fiscal 2022 will be hosted on the Bank’s website at (https://
MANAGEMENT ACT, 1999
www.icicibank.com/aboutus/annual.html).
auditors that it is in compliance with the Foreign Exchange
INTEGRATED REPORTING
Management Act, 1999 provisions with respect to The Bank has adopted the principles of the International investments made in its consolidated subsidiaries and Integrated Reporting Framework as developed by the
associates during fiscal 2022.
for fiscal 2022, please refer to the Integrated Report section
of the Annual Report 2021-22.
66

--- Page 129 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK • The Asset Liability Management Committee provides The Bank’s risk management framework is based on guidance for management of liquidity of the overall a clear understanding of various risks, disciplined risk Bank and management of interest rate risk in the assessment and measurement procedures and continuous banking book within the broad parameters laid down
monitoring. The Board of Directors has oversight on all by the Board of Directors/Risk Committee.
been constituted to facilitate focused oversight of various
are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
risks, as follows:
Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)
independently of the business groups/subgroups.
Prevention & Reputation Risk Management Group, with a
banking subsidiaries and non-banking subsidiaries.
of the Bank. The CRO for administrative purposes
and capital at risk as a part of the risk dashboard.
reviews the Liquidity Contingency Plan for the Bank
policies and methodologies.
and the various thresholds set out in the Plan.
maintains appropriately qualified personnel to fulfill its
to large borrower accounts and borrower groups.
The Credit Committee also reviews major credit
are responsible to the Audit Committee of the Board.
watch, overdues, incremental sanctions etc. INFORMATION REQUIRED UNDER THE
SEXUAL HARASSMENT OF WOMEN AT
• The Audit Committee of the Board provides direction
WORKPLACE (PREVENTION, PROHIBITION &
to and monitors the quality of the internal audit
REDRESSAL) ACT, 2013
function, oversees the financial reporting process and also monitors compliance with inspection The Bank has a policy against sexual harassment and a and audit reports of RBI, other regulators and formal process for dealing with complaints of harassment statutory auditors. or discrimination. The said policy is in line with the 67

--- Page 130 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
requirements of ‘The Sexual Harassment of Women at from the Managing Director & CEO regarding Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, compliance with the Code by all the Directors and
2013’. The Bank has complied with provisions relating to senior management forms part of the Annual Report.
the constitution of Internal Committee under the said Act.
b. number of complaints disposed of during the financial
Code on Prohibition of Insider Trading.
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015,
within the applicable turnaround time (90 days).
Material Subsidiaries and the same has been hosted
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
on the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.
Directors constituted a majority on most of the Committees Requirements) Regulations, 2015. The Bank does not
and most of the Committees were chaired by Independent have any unlisted material subsidiary.
Directors.
and promote a culture of accountability, transparency
which are made to the Directors from time to time.
and ethical conduct across the Bank.
Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics been hosted on the website of the Bank at (https://
www.icicibank.com/aboutus/bod-1.page?).
personal/general-links/code_of_business_conduct_
www.icicibank.com/aboutus/other-policies.
ethics.pdf). Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange
page?#toptitle).
68

--- Page 131 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Whistle Blower Policy during the year ended March 31, 2022 are given in the
following table:
or any act resulting in financial or reputation loss services 5,035,000
and misuse of office or suspected or actual fraud.
The policy provides for a mechanism to report
such concerns to the Audit Committee through 1 Excludes taxes and out of pocket expenses.
specified channels. The policy has been periodically 2 I ncludes payments made to previous statutory auditor,
communicated to the employees and also posted Walker Chandiok & Co LLP, amounting to ` 30,020,000.
Section 177 of the Companies Act, 2013 and other (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
applicable laws, rules and regulations. The details Regulations, 2015 were accepted by the Board.
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) sectors(s) for it to function effectively and has been in
Regulations, 2015, the certification by the Managing compliance with the same.
financial reporting has been obtained. possessed by the existing directors of the Bank is
detailed as under:
69

--- Page 132 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Credit Rating as on March 31, 2022 Name of Areas of expertise Director Foreign currency denominated instruments issued by the Bank S. Madhavan Accountancy, Banking, Economics, Finance, Law, Information Instrument type Moody's S&P JCRA Technology, Human Resources, Risk Management, Business Senior unsecured Baa3 BBB- - Management medium term notes Neelam Dhawan Banking, Information Technology, Senior unsecured - - BBB+* Human Resources, Business medium term Management notes issued under Radhakrishnan Accountancy, Agriculture and Rural Tokyo pro-bond Nair Economy, Banking, Co-operation, Certificate of P-3 - - Economics, Finance, Law, Small Deposits Scale Industry, Payment and Settlement Systems, Human Rupee denominated instruments issued by the Bank Resources, Risk Management, Business Management, Insurance, Instrument type CARE ICRA CRISIL Securities, Treasury Management, Tier II bonds CARE AAA [ICRA]AAA - Foreign Exchange Management (Basel III) B. Sriram Banking, Finance, Small Scale Industry, Information Technology, Additional Tier 1 CARE AA+ [ICRA]AA+ CRISIL AA+ Payment and Settlement Systems, bonds (Basel III) Credit and Risk, Treasury Unsecured CARE AAA [ICRA]AAA CRISIL AAA# Uday Chitale Accountancy, Banking, Finance, redeemable bonds Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR), Long term bonds CARE AAA [ICRA]AAA CRISIL AAA Auditing & Assurance issued by erstwhile Vibha Paul Rishi Consumer Insight & Marketing, ICICI Limited Strategy, Accountancy, Certificate of CARE A1+ [ICRA]A1+ - Agriculture and rural economy, Deposits Economics, Finance, Information Technology, Human Resources, Fixed deposits CARE AAA MAAA$ - Risk Management, Business Moody’s: Moody’s Investors Services Management S&P: S&P Global Ratings Sandeep Banking, Finance, Business Bakhshi Management, Insurance JCRA: Japan Credit Rating Agency, Limited Anup Bagchi Accountancy, Banking, Economics, CARE: CARE Ratings Limited, India Finance, Small Scale Industry, ICRA: ICRA Limited, India Information Technology, Payment and Settlement Systems, CRISIL: CRISIL Limited, India Risk Management, Business # In March 2022, a new rating from CRISIL was issued of Management, Retail & Rural and “CRISIL AAA” for the Bank’s unsecured redeemable bonds Inclusive Banking, Strategy and
(infrastructure bonds).
Business Strategy, Retail Broking, * I n May 2022, Japan Credit Rating Agency, Limited withdrew
Corporate Banking, Investment ICICI Bank’s foreign currency long-term issuer rating of BBB+.
Services the full repayment of bonds and subsequent delisting of the
Tokyo Pro-bond Programme.
Risk Management, Business symbol for ICICI Bank’s fixed deposits programme from MAAA
Management, Insurance, to [ICRA]AAA.
70

--- Page 133 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Certificate from a Company Secretary in practice and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and In terms of the Securities and Exchange Board of India Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and in
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) accordance with good corporate governance practices.
from a Company Secretary in practice that none of the
operational areas.
directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange twelve Directors, out of which eight were Independent
Board of India/Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such Directors and four were Executive Directors.
There were ten meetings of the Board during the year –
in practice is annexed herewith as Annexure B.
Board of Directors October 5 and October 23 in 2021 and January 22 and
February 18 in 2022.
constituted in compliance with the Banking Regulation There were no inter-se relationships between any of
Act, 1949, the Companies Act, 2013 and the Securities the Directors.
The names of the Directors, their attendance at Board Meetings during the year, attendance at the last AGM and details of
other directorships and board committee memberships held by them at March 31, 2022 are set out in the following table:
Chaturvedi, Chairman Financial Services Limited2
(DIN: 00110996) (NED)
• IL&FS Energy Development Company Limited2 (NED) Hari L. Mundra 9/10 Present 1 - 1(1) -
(DIN: 00287029)
Neelam Dhawan 10/10 Present 2 - 2(1) -
(DIN: 00871445)
Radhakrishnan Nair 10/10 Present 6 2 6(2) • ICICI Prudential Life (DIN: 07225354) Insurance Company Limited
(ID)
• Geojit Financial Services Limited (ID) • ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited (ID) • Inditrade Capital Limited (ID)
Rama Bijapurkar 9/9 Present N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
from January 23, 2022)
(DIN: 00001835)
71

--- Page 134 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Board Number of directorships Attendance Number Meetings at last AGM of other of other of other Directorships in other listed Name of Director attended (August 20, Indian public Indian committee entity and category of during 2021) limited companies memberships1 directorship the year companies B. Sriram 10/10 Present 5 1 5(1) • Unitech Limited3 (DIN: 02993708) (Government Nominee Director) • Nippon Life India Asset Management Limited (ID) S. Madhavan 10/10 Present 6 4 8(4) • UFO Moviez India Limited
(DIN:06451889) (ID)
• Transport Corporation of India Limited (ID) • HCL Technologies Limited
(ID)
• Sterlite Technologies Limited (ID) • Procter & Gamble Health Limited (ID) Uday Chitale 10/10 Present 2 1 2(1) • ICICI Lombard General (DIN: 00043268) Insurance Company Limited
(ID)
• India Infradebt Limited (ID) Vibha Paul Rishi 1/1 N.A. 5 - 5(1) • ICICI Prudential Life (Appointed with effect Insurance Company Limited from January 23, 2022) (ID)
(DIN: 05180796)
• Asian Paints Limited (ID) • Tata Chemicals Limited (ID) • Escorts Limited (ID) Government Nominee Director
Lalit Kumar Chandel 1/5 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
hours on August 18, 2021)
(DIN: 00182667)
Executive Directors Sandeep Bakhshi, 10/10 Present - - - - Managing Director & CEO
(DIN: 00109206)
Anup Bagchi 10/10 Present 5 - - • ICICI Prudential Life (DIN: 00105962) Insurance Company Limited
(NED)
• ICICI Securities Limited
(NED)
• ICICI Home Finance Company Limited (NED) 72

--- Page 135 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Board Number of directorships Attendance Number Meetings at last AGM of other of other of other Directorships in other listed Name of Director attended (August 20, Indian public Indian committee entity and category of during 2021) limited companies memberships1 directorship the year companies Sandeep Batra 10/10 Present 4 - 3(0) • ICICI Prudential Life (DIN: 03620913) Insurance Company Limited
(NED)
• ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
(NED)
Vishakha Mulye 10/10 Present 1 1 - • ICICI Lombard General (Resigned with effect Insurance Company Limited from May 31, 2022) (NED)
(DIN: 00203578)
Independent Director (ID) Non-Executive Director (NED) 1 I ncludes only chairmanship/membership of Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee of other Indian public
limited companies. Figures in parentheses indicate committee chairpersonships.
Chaturvedi as the Director and as Chairman of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services Limited and IL&FS Energy Development
Company Limited respectively.
Supreme Court of India, B. Sriram was appointed as Nominee Director of Government of India on the Board of Unitech Limited with
effect from January 22, 2020.
page?#toptitle). respective Members at the various Committee Meetings
held during fiscal 2022 are set out below:
and auditors’ report and overseeing the financial
Co-operative Borrowers.
73

--- Page 136 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
to statutory auditors for other permitted services Composition rendered by them, reviewing and monitoring with There were seventeen Meetings of the Committee the management the auditor’s independence and the during the year – April 22, April 24, June 25, June 30 (held performance and effectiveness of the audit process, jointly with Risk Committee), July 8, July 23, July 24, approval of transactions with related parties or any September 2, October 22, October 23, October 27 subsequent modifications, review of statement of (held jointly with Risk Committee), November 16 and significant related party transactions and utilization December 16 in 2021 and January 20, January 22, of loans and/or advances from/investment by the February 17 and March 17 in 2022. The details of the Bank in its subsidiaries. The Audit Committee also composition of the Committee and attendance at reviews the functioning of the Whistle Blower Policy, its Meetings held during the year are set out in the adequacy of internal control systems and the internal
following table:
function) after assessing the qualifications, experience options to employees and wholetime Directors of
and background, etc. of the candidate. the Bank and its subsidiary companies.
74

--- Page 137 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Composition The Committee based on the above assessments makes suitable recommendations on the appointment There were four Meetings of the Committee
during the year – April 24, 2021, July 24, 2021, of Directors to the Board.
Chairman. The Compensation Policy is available at
Policy/Criteria for Directors’ Appointment (https://www.icicibank.com/aboutus/other-policies.
Remuneration & Nomination Committee (Committee)
has put in place a policy on Directors’ appointment titled “Compensation Policy and Practices”.
Act, 1949. The Committee assesses the fit and proper
the Committee/Board as approved by the Board.
2021 which has been approved by the Members at
issued by RBI in this regard.
their Meeting held on August 20, 2021.
reviews the same and determine the independence Bank and any other modes of remuneration as may
of a Director. be permitted by RBI from time to time.
75

--- Page 138 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
All the Non-Executive/Independent Directors would be Chairperson of the Board besides the general criteria entitled to reimbursement of expenses for attending adopted for assessment of all Directors, focuses Board/Committee Meetings, official visits and on leadership abilities, effective management of
participation in various forums on behalf of the Bank. meetings and preservation of interest of stakeholders.
the Board is assessed on select parameters related to
executed as directed by the Board.
issues, performance on key areas, providing feedback further detailed under the section titled “Compensation
to executive management and assessing the quality, Policy and Practices”.
areas which were relevant to them in their capacity as performance bonus and perquisites, payable to the
members of the Board. The evaluation criteria for the MD & CEO and wholetime Directors.
The following table sets out the details of remuneration (including perquisites and retiral benefits) paid in fiscal 2022:
depicts FY2021 fixed remuneration actually paid out which would stand augmented in accordance with the subsequent RBI
approval received post year end which is subject to approval by shareholders at the ensuing AGM.
2 R epresents payout of 50% of the performance bonus amount pertaining to fiscal 2021 as approved by RBI. The balance 50%
amount will be equally deferred over a period of three years in line with the Bank’s policy and regulatory stipulations.
76

--- Page 139 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Perquisites (evaluated as per Income-tax rules The Bank does not pay any severance fees to its
wherever applicable and otherwise at actual cost to Managing Director & CEO or to its wholetime Directors.
and telephone at residence or reimbursement of notice period for each of them, as specified in their
respective terms of appointments is two months.
staff loan policy applicable to specified grades of subsidiary of the Bank being the deferred variable pay
employees who fulfil prescribed eligibility criteria to for fiscal 2018.
from the date of vesting. of the Committee attended other than the Audit
Committee, Credit Committee and Risk Committee.
Information on the sitting fees, remuneration and profit related commission paid to each Non-Executive Director during
fiscal 2022 is set out in the following table:
77

--- Page 140 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Government Nominee Director was only entitled to of appointment of independent Directors on the reimbursement of expenses for attending Board/ basis of the report of performance evaluation of Committee Meetings. independent Directors, recommending to the Board a policy relating to the remuneration for The Board at its Meeting held on April 23, 2022 the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel, Material approved revision in sitting fee payable to Non- Risk Takers (MRTs) and other employees, Executive Directors (other than Government Nominee recommending to the Board the remuneration Director) from ` 50,000 to ` 100,000 for attending (including performance bonus, share-linked each Meeting of Board Governance, Remuneration instruments and perquisites) to wholetime & Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Directors (WTDs) and senior management, Responsibility Committee, Customer Service approving the policy for and quantum of variable Committee, Fraud Monitoring Committee, Information pay payable to members of the staff including Technology Strategy Committee, Stakeholders senior management, key managerial personnel, Relationship Committee and Review Committee for material risk takers and formulating the criteria Identification of Wilful Defaulters/Non Co-operative for determining qualifications, positive attributes
Borrowers effective April 24, 2022.
As on March 31, 2022, S. Madhavan and Vibha Paul to employees and WTDs of the Bank and its
Rishi (as joint holder) held 4,000 and 330 equity shares subsidiary companies.
of face value of ` 2.00 each respectively.
basis in their Annual Report: the area of compensation, including executive
compensation.
COMPENSATION POLICY AND PRACTICES
• Scope of the Bank’s remuneration policy (eg.
to which it is applicable to foreign subsidiaries
a) Bodies that oversee remuneration.
Nomination Committee (BGRNC/Committee) July 15, 2021 covers all employees of the Bank,
is the body which oversees the remuneration including those in overseas branches of the Bank.
recommending appointments of Directors to the guidelines, the overseas branches also adhere to
Board, identifying persons who are qualified to relevant local regulations.
of the whole time/independent Directors and permanent employees of the Bank at March 31,
the Board and to extend or continue the term 2022 was 103,010.
78

--- Page 141 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
b) D esign and structure of remuneration • Changes, if any, made by the remuneration processes committee in the firm’s remuneration policy during the past year, and if so, an overview of • Key features and objectives of remuneration any changes that were made policy During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank’s The Bank has under the guidance of the Board Compensation Policy was reviewed and amended and the BGRNC, followed compensation by the BGRNC and Board on April 21, 2021 to practices intended to drive performance within align with the revised RBI circular on ‘Guidelines
the framework of prudent risk management.
Compensation Policy, the key elements of which
Control Function staff’ dated November 4, 2019.
are given below.
resolution dated July 12, 2021 which was
BGRNC has oversight over compensation.
with sub parameters. The BGRNC assesses
Committees of the Board’.
The compensation of staff engaged in control
management personnel.
achieve a prudent mix of fixed and variable functions. They are not assessed on business
pay, with a higher proportion of variable pay targets.
at senior levels and no guaranteed bonuses.
both financial and non- financial indicators
processes.
a period of time. Compensation of staff in within this framework. The risk framework includes
audit, compliance and risk control functions the Bank’s risk appetite and the limits framework.
79

--- Page 142 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
in areas such as risk calibrated core operating d) W ays in which the Bank seeks to link profit (profit before provisions and tax excluding performance during a performance treasury income), performance indicators include measurement period with levels of aspects such as asset quality. The BGRNC remuneration takes into consideration all the above aspects • Main performance metrics for Bank, top level while assessing organisational and individual business lines and individuals performance and making compensation-related The main performance metrics include risk
recommendations to the Board.
qualitative and quantitative aspects including,
development.
performance assessment of WTDs and equivalent
of business, within which the Bank operates.
positions.
takes into consideration all the above aspects decide to apply malus/clawback on none, part or
while assessing organisational performance and all of the relevant variable compensation.
variable remuneration and, if the fraction of
changes on remuneration.
80

--- Page 143 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
linked instruments (including stock options). The (other than assessed divergence), variable quantum of variable pay for an employee does pay already paid out may also be subjected not exceed a certain percentage (as stipulated in to clawback arrangements, as defined in the
the compensation policy) of the total fixed pay compensation policy.
using these different forms
is variable for WTDs, CEO and MRTs as a design.
However, they can earn lesser variable pay based • Forms of variable remuneration offered.
different forms of variable remuneration differs
pay is under deferral arrangement (deferment).
assessed divergence in the Bank’s provisioning
horizon of risks as defined in the policy.
the event of gross misconduct and/or other pay at senior levels and lower variable pay for
acts as mentioned in the policy. In such cases front-line staff and junior management levels.
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the details of quantitative disclosure for remuneration of WTDs
(including MD & CEO) and other Material Risk Takers.
81

--- Page 144 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
` in million, except numbers No Particulars At March 31, 2021 At March 31, 2022 6 Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out during the year Bonus (amount in million) - - Share-linked instruments4 (nos) 9,370,230 9,529,100 7 Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration Cash (amount in million) NA 211.1 Shares (nos.) - - Shares-linked instruments5 (nos) 19,889,730 16,098,240 Other - - 8 Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration and retained remuneration exposed to ex-post explicit and/or implicit adjustments Bonus - 211.1 Shares-linked instruments (nos.) 9,127,500 1,21,87,480 9 Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex-post NA NA explicit adjustments6 10 Total amount of reductions during the financial year due to ex-post NA NA implicit adjustments 11 Number of MRTs identified 47 48 12 Number of cases where malus has been exercised - - Number of cases where clawback has been exercised6 - - Number of cases where malus and clawback have been exercised - - 13 The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the
deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean pay.
Deviation- WTD38 46,536,300 51,573,500
1 I ncludes MD & CEO, WTDs and other MRTs based on the revised criteria given by RBI in its guideline dated November 4, 2019.
Also includes WTDs transferred to group companies and who were paid bonus or stock options granted/vested during the year.
value of perquisites. The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to the Bank. The salaries for separated MRTs have been
considered for the period they were in service with the Bank.
as per RBI approvals wherever applicable
4 Includes options of WTDs who were transferred to group companies.
5 Includes outstanding options of WTDs who were transferred to group companies.
6 Excludes ` 74.1 million variable pay to the former MD & CEO for past years which has been directed for claw-back in respect of
which the Bank has filed a recovery suit against the former MD & CEO.
7 M ean pay is computed on annualised fixed pay that includes basic salary, supplementary allowances, superannuation,
contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund and value of perquisites. The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to the Bank.
retirals and was paid honorarium fee of `1/-. Material Risk Takers of the Bank including Executive Directors voluntarily
opted for a 10% salary reduction effective May 1, 2020 in the basic salary, retirals and supplementary allowances.
For FY2022 - the remuneration paid/approved in FY2021 has been considered for MD & CEO and WTDs.
82

--- Page 145 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Disclosures required with respect to Section (iii) The percentage increase in the median remuneration
197(12) of the Companies Act, 2013 of employees in the financial year;
median employee’s remuneration and such other details
of employees in the financial year was around 11%.
Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 and
Company;
as amended from time to time.
105,844. Out of this, the employees on permanent
Company for the financial year;
Sandeep Bakhshi,
109:1 in overseas locations.
Independent Director
increase in the managerial remuneration;
Independent Director
Managerial Personnel was in the range of 5%-10%.
Rama Bijapurkar,*
Independent Director 5.75:1 remuneration policy of the Company.
Independent Director
Uday Chitale, Notes:
* Director upto January 22, 2022 1949. RBI approval for revision in fixed remuneration for
^Director with effect from January 23, 2022 FY2022 was received by the Bank on May 10, 2022 i.e.
Officer, Company Secretary or Manager, if any, in approved by the Members for FY2022 as per the
the financial year; resolution approved at the AGM held on August 20, 2021.
Managing Director & CEO
and thereafter by RBI.
5% -
Financial Officer approval by shareholders at the ensuing AGM.
83

--- Page 146 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
T he percentage increase in remuneration as stated Composition in point (ii) above is the percentage increase in fixed There were four Meetings of the Committee during the remuneration as approved by the Board and RBI for FY2022 which is subject to approval by shareholders at year – April 20, 2021, May 26, 2021, October 7, 2021 the ensuing AGM. and January 11, 2022. The details of the composition of the Committee and attendance at its Meetings held 2 T he Independent Directors of the Bank including
Chairman receive sitting fees for attending each Meeting during the year are set out in the following table:
of the Committee/Board as approved by the Board.
the CSR Policy, reviewing the submissions to be
Foundation for Inclusive Growth.
of funds, any modifications to be suggested to on- the operating framework, disclosure requirements
going projects, earmarking unspent CSR amount, if and principles for selection of CSR projects.
any, in subsequent periods as prescribed in the Act
The web-link to the Bank’s revised CSR Policy is:
reviewing and implementing, if required, any other
annexed herewith as Annexure C.
matter related to CSR initiatives as recommended/
suggested by RBI or any other body.
84

--- Page 147 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
V. Credit Committee attendance at its Meetings held during the year are
set out in the following table:
(Member and Chairperson
authorisation approved by the Board.
Member of the Committee with effect from April 24, remedial action taken to prevent recurrence of frauds,
2022 and Anup Bagchi, Executive Director has been such as strengthening of internal controls.
Composition
from April 24, 2022.
The functions of this Committee include review
during the year are set out in the following table:
customer service and improvement in the overall (Chairman w.e.f. October 1, 2021)
satisfaction level of customers.
85

--- Page 148 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
VIII. Information Technology Strategy Committee Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) and framework for capital allocation; review of the Basel Terms of Reference framework, risk dashboard covering various risks, The functions of the Committee are to approve outsourcing activities and the activities of the Asset strategy for Information Technology (IT) and policy Liability Management Committee. The Committee has documents, ensure that IT strategy is aligned with oversight on risks of subsidiaries covered under the business strategy, review IT risks, ensure proper Group Risk Management Framework. The Committee balance of IT investments for sustaining the Bank’s also carries out Cyber Security risk assessment. The growth, oversee the aggregate funding of IT at Bank- appointment, removal and terms of remuneration level, ascertain if the management has resources to of the Chief Risk Officer is subject to review by the ensure the proper management of IT risks, review Committee. The Committee keeps the Board of contribution of IT to business, oversee the activities Directors informed about the nature and content of of Digital Council, review technology from a future its discussions, recommendations and actions to be readiness perspective, overseeing key projects taken. The Committee coordinates its activities with progress & critical IT systems performance, review other committees, in instances where there is any of special IT initiatives, review cyber risk, consider overlap with activities of such committees, as per the
the RBI inspection report/directives received from framework laid down by the Board of Directors.
the year – April 20, 2021, June 29, 2021 (held jointly December 14 in 2021 and January 21, February 15
with Risk Committee), July 22, 2021, October 21, 2021 and March 25 in 2022.
attendance at its Meetings held during the year are
during the year are set out in the following table:
set out in the following table:
any industry or country, review of the Enterprise authority for opening and operation of bank accounts
Risk Management (ERM) framework, Risk Appetite for payment of interest/dividend.
86

--- Page 149 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Composition Composition There were five Meetings of the Committee during The Managing Director & CEO is the Chairman of the year – April 23, July 23 and October 21 in 2021 this Committee and any two independent Directors and January 21 and February 17 in 2022. The details comprise the remaining members. Two Meetings
of the composition of the Committee and attendance of the Committee were held during the year.
following table: January 11, 2022 were attended by Sandeep Bakhshi,
Uday Chitale and Radhakrishnan Nair.
from at least two members to at least three members (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
with effect from June 30, 2019, to transact business Regulations, 2015.
Committee, Committee for Identification of Wilful
of Hari L. Mundra who was granted leave of absence.
Operational Risk Management Committee, Vigilance
complaints received in fiscal 2022 were processed.
Committee and other Committees (all comprising
At March 31, 2022, no complaints were pending.
Terms of Reference of operational risk, under authorisation/supervision
of the Board and its Committees.
borrower) and confirm the same for the order to be
considered final.
87

--- Page 150 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
XIV. General Body Meetings
The details of General Body Meetings held in the last three years are given below:
Pratapgunj, Vadodara 390 002
No Special Resolution was passed at the Twenty-Seventh Annual General Meeting held on Friday, August 20, 2021.
The details of the Special Resolutions passed in the Annual General Meetings held in the year 2020 and 2019 are
given below:
Resolutions were passed through postal ballot during fiscal 2022 vide Postal Ballot Notice dated February 18, 2022
pursuant to the provisions of Section 110 and other applicable provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
the rules made thereunder on account of the threat posed by Covid-19”, the approval of the Members of the Bank
was obtained through Postal Ballot only through the remote e-voting process.
Secretaries or failing him Mr. Jay D’Souza of Jay D’Souza & Co., Practicing Company Secretaries, as the Scrutinizer
for conducting the Postal Ballot e-voting process in a fair and transparent manner.
were passed with requisite majority on March 27, 2022 (the last date for remote e-voting). The details of the voting
pattern are given below:
88

--- Page 151 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
% of votes Number of Number of % of votes % of votes Number of Polled on votes cast in votes cast Resolutions in favour on against on votes polled outstanding favour of the against the votes polled votes polled shares Resolution Resolution Material Related Party 5,668,080,368 81.60 5,667,771,841 308,527 99.995 0.005 Transactions for current account deposits (Ordinary Resolution) Material Related Party 5,668,073,237 81.60 5,667,349,379 723,858 99.987 0.013 Transactions for subscribing to securities issued by Related Parties and purchase of securities from Related Parties (Ordinary Resolution) Material Related 5,667,069,982 81.58 5,666,352,688 717,294 99.987 0.013 Party Transactions for sale of securities to Related Parties (Ordinary Resolution) Material Related Party 5,668,065,509 81.60 5,667,727,952 337,557 99.994 0.006 Transactions for fund based or non-fund based credit facilities (Ordinary Resolution) Material Related Party 5,668,066,697 81.60 5,667,734,815 331,882 99.994 0.006 Transactions for undertaking repurchase (repo) transactions and other permitted short-term borrowing transactions (Ordinary Resolution) Material Related 5,668,066,856 81.60 5,667,733,133 333,723 99.994 0.006 Party Transactions of reverse repurchase (reverse repo) and other permitted short-term lending transactions (Ordinary Resolution) Material Related Party 5,668,072,302 81.60 5,667,336,729 735,573 99.987 0.013 Transactions for availing manpower services for certain functions/ activities of the Bank from Related Party (Ordinary Resolution)
At present, no special resolution is proposed to be passed through postal ballot.
89

--- Page 152 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
XV. Disclosures Court, the matter stands settled in respect of
the appeals as mentioned in the said order.
separate categories of securities on two different
last three years, detailed as hereunder:
Section 23E of the Securities Contracts without explicit permission was in contravention
(Regulation) Act, 1956 on the Bank for of RBI directions.
December 13, 2021 (received by the ICICI Bank
erstwhile Bank of Rajasthan with the Bank.
1949 for non-compliance with certain directions
to warning.
2021, under SEBI (Settlement Proceedings) maintenance of MAB with the above direction of
Regulations, 2018 pursuant to which the RBI effective from November 2021.
Bank has paid the settlement amount to SEBI.
disposal of the civil appeal matters pending
to the Audit Committee.
dated May 12, 2022 has communicated that the Companies Act, 2013, are not applicable to
in view of the Order of the Hon’ble Supreme the Bank.
90

--- Page 153 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
5. There is no application or proceeding General Shareholder Information pending against the Bank under the Insolvency Annual General Day, Date Time and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 during the year Meeting
under review.
Twenty-Eighth Tuesday, 3:00 p.m.
Conferencing/Other
the year under review.
have access to information regarding its position to Record Date: August 10, 2022
enable them to accurately assess its future potential.
domestic and global wire agencies. The information
is also disseminated to the National Stock Exchange 1 FII segment of BSE.
of India Limited (NSE), BSE Limited (BSE), New 2 E ach ADS of ICICI Bank represents two underlying equity
York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Securities Exchange shares.
privately placed bonds as well bonds issued via
Exchange Ltd. from time to time.
public issues which are listed on BSE/NSE.
under the Securities and Exchange Board of India periods to BSE and NSE where its equity shares/
(Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) bonds are listed and NYSE where its ADSs are listed.
The Signature, Building No. 13B, Road 1C, Zone 1,
available on the Bank’s website.
The Management’s Discussion & Analysis forms part SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd, P.O. Box 1758, CH-8021
of the Annual Report. Zurich, Switzerland.
91

--- Page 154 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Market Price Information The reported high and low closing prices and volume of equity shares of ICICI Bank traded during fiscal 2022 on BSE
and NSE are set out in the following table:
The reported high and low closing prices and volume of ADSs of ICICI Bank traded during fiscal 2022 on the NYSE are
given below:
92

--- Page 155 ---
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The performance of ICICI Bank equity shares relative to the S&P BSE Sensitive Index (Sensex), S&P BSE Bank Index
(Bankex) and NYSE Financial Index during the period April 1, 2021 to March 31, 2022 is given in the following chart:
Shares and Liquidity Secretary and filed with BSE and NSE, where the
As per the SEBI mandate, securities of listed equity shares of ICICI Bank are listed.
all risks associated with physical shares and for ease
Participants) Regulations, 2018 and SEBI Circular No.
as amended vide Circular No. CIR/MRD/DP/30/2010
their holdings to dematerialised form.
with the total issued/paid up equity share capital of
0.22% of the share capital are in physical form.
and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations filed with BSE and NSE, where the equity shares of
and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, ICICI Bank are listed.
93

--- Page 156 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Registrar and Transfer Agents Bengaluru:
Bengaluru 560 004
3i Infotech Limited with effect from April 1, 2022.
Investor services related queries/requests/grievances
Kolkata:
KFin Technologies Limited
Anand at the address as under:
(formerly known as KFin Technologies Private Limited)
Unit : ICICI Bank Limited Chennai:
bonds/debentures may be directed to Mr. Vijay Singh
Other Service Centers of KFin Technologies Limited, Chauhan at the address as under:
R & T Agent for equity shareholders:
Office # 207-210, 2nd floor, Kamla Arcade
performance of ICICI Bank may be addressed to:
94

--- Page 157 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Debenture Trustees Pursuant to Regulation 53 of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the names and contact details of the debenture trustees for the public issue bonds
and privately placed bonds of the Bank are given below:
Note: Axis Trustee Services Limited are now new Debenture Trustees for those Bond Series which were earlier
managed by Bank of Maharashtra.
The details are available on the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/Personal-Banking/investments/
icici-bank-bonds/index.page).
Bank’s Customer Service
The Bank enables customers to avail of services through multiple channels.
care?ITM=nli_cms_CONTACT_US_customer_care_menu_navigation
• Branch: Speak to the branch officials for resolution. Alternatively, drop queries/feedback in the drop box at branches.
• Website: Raise a request on the Bank’s website. For details, https://www.icicibank.com/Personal-Banking/insta-
banking/internet-banking/list-of-service-requests.page?
• Email: Write to us at customer.care@icicibank.com
• iMobile: Seek resolution using the IPAL chat bot.
Alternative Investment Fund 33,309,979 0.48
IEPF 7,545,883 0.11
Others (includes NRIs, Foreign Banks, Foreign Companies, Foreign Nationals etc.) 33,652,758 0.48 Total 6,948,771,375 100.00 95

--- Page 158 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Shareholders of ICICI Bank with more than one percent holding at March 31, 2022 Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares % holding Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas* 1,318,553,693 18.98 Life Insurance Corporation of India 445,985,216 6.42 SBI Mutual Fund 330,797,507 4.76 ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund 200,002,803 2.88 Government of Singapore 185,733,311 2.67 HDFC Mutual Fund 147,519,935 2.12 NPS Trust 128,495,809 1.85 Dodge & Cox International Stock Fund 112,786,676 1.62 UTI Mutual Fund 112,240,831 1.62 Kotak Mahindra Mutual Fund 109,517,259 1.58 Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund 100,158,892 1.44 Nippon India Mutual Fund 100,138,588 1.44 Axis Mutual Fund 97,036,934 1.40 Mirae Asset Mutual Fund 85,563,024 1.23 Europacific Growth Fund 72,707,558 1.05 SBI Life Insurance Company Limited 70,331,307 1.01
* Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas holds equity shares of ICICI Bank as depositary for ADS holders.
shareholders as and when the request for the same the Unpaid Dividend Accounts of the Company has
has been received after proper verification. During been transferred to the IEPF.
in respect of which the dividend has not been claimed
in the suspense account.
for seven consecutive years have been transferred to
The voting rights on the shares lying in suspense the designated demat account of the IEPF Authority.
The unclaimed dividend and the equity shares
shares claims the shares.
application in the prescribed form available on the
website of IEPF at (www.iepf.gov.in).
96

--- Page 159 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Members who have not yet encashed their dividend In view of the above, the disclosure pursuant warrant(s) for the financial year ended March 31, 2016 to the SEBI Circular No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD1/ and/or subsequent years are requested to submit CIR/P/2018/0000000141 dated November 15, 2018 is
their claims to KFin Technologies Limited without not required to be given.
any delay.
hedging activities
Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
requirements such as maintaining a separate office
(NOOP) limit approved by the Board of Directors.
currencies through bond issuances, bilateral loans
Audit Committee.
rate or floating rate linked. In case of fixed rate long-
The required details as per the RBI circular No.
wherein the Bank effectively moves the interest
financial statements.
ICICI Bank has annexed to this Report, a certificate
rate swaps.
Banks to take any market positions in commodity Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations
related activities. However, the extant guidelines and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
allows Bank to import gold and silver in line with the
EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTION SCHEME
RBI license and selling of imported gold/silver on outright basis to domestic clients or providing gold The Bank has an Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS/ metal loan to jewellery manufacturers. ICICI Bank Scheme) which was instituted in fiscal 2000 to enable provides pricing and hedging of Gold Metal Loan to the employees and wholetime Directors of ICICI Bank jewellery customers and such exposures are covered and its subsidiaries to participate in future growth and on a back-to-back basis with gold suppliers. financial success of the Bank. The ESOS aims at achieving 97

--- Page 160 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
the twin objectives of aligning employee interest to that Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock of the shareholders and retention. Through employee options granted under ESOS, using intrinsic value stock option grants, the Bank seeks to foster a culture of method. Pursuant to RBI clarification dated August 30, long-term sustainable value creation. The Scheme is in 2021, the cost of stock options granted after March 31, compliance with the Securities and Exchange Board of 2021 is recognised based on fair value method. The cost India (Share Based Employee Benefits and Sweat Equity) of stock options granted up to March 31, 2021 continues Regulations, 2021 (the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations). to be recognised on intrinsic value method. The Bank Pursuant to the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations, options uses Black-Scholes model to fair value the options on are granted by the Board Governance, Remuneration & the grant date and the inputs used in the valuation model Nomination Committee and noted by the Board. include assumptions such as the expected life of the
share option, volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield.
shares on exercise of options calculated in accordance
from time to time.
The Bank has upto March 31, 2022 granted 590.42 million March 31, 2022 was ` 32.98 compared to basic EPS
stock options from time to time aggregating to 8.50% of of ` 33.66.
the issued equity capital of the Bank at March 31, 2022.
maximum number of options granted to any employee/
options granted.
Risk-free
million shares of face value ` 2.00 each at March 31, 2022).
Number of options vested during the year 32,901,210 during the year ended March 31, 2022 was ` 570.43 (year
Number of options exercised during the 32,778,988 ended March 31, 2021: ` 337.73).
Number of options outstanding at the end 237,197,999 the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated based
of the year on the historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank.
Directors of subsidiary company adjusted post regulatory estimated expected term of the option are based on recent
approvals dividend activity.
98

--- Page 161 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The detailed disclosures as stipulated under Regulation Regulation Act, 1949 and the Companies Act, 2013 for 14 of the SEBI SBEB & SE Regulations will be hosted on safeguarding the assets of the Bank and for preventing
the website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/ and detecting fraud and other irregularities;
aboutus/other-policies.page?#toptitle).
4. that they have prepared the annual accounts on a
going concern basis;
ICICI BANK EMPLOYEES STOCK UNIT
SCHEME – 2022 (SCHEME 2022) 5. that they have laid down internal financial controls The Board of Directors at its Meeting held on June 28, to be followed by the Bank and that such internal 2022, approved the adoption of Scheme 2022, subject to financial controls are adequate and were operating the approval of Members. Approval of the Members is effectively; and being sought for the said Scheme 2022 in the Notice of 6. that they have devised proper systems to ensure
the forthcoming AGM through item nos. 23 and 24.
and that such systems were adequate and operating
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY
effectively.
ABSORPTION, FOREIGN EXCHANGE
EARNINGS AND OUTGO
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The Bank has undertaken various initiatives for energy ICICI Bank is grateful to the Government of India, Reserve conservation at its premises. A detailed write up is Bank of India, Securities and Exchange Board of India, given in the Environmental, Social and Governance Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Report of fiscal 2022 which will be available on the of India and overseas regulators for their continued website of the Bank at (https://www.icicibank.com/ co-operation, support and guidance. ICICI Bank wishes aboutus/annual.html) and in the Environmental to thank its investors, the domestic and international Sustainability chapter in the Integrated Report section banking community, rating agencies, depositories and of the Annual Report for fiscal 2022. The Bank has used
stock exchanges for their support.
information technology extensively in its operations;
Standard on General Meetings (SS-2) for the financial year
trust and support.
ended March 31, 2022.
For and on behalf of the Board
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
The Directors confirm: Girish Chandra Chaturvedi 1. that in the preparation of the annual accounts, the Chairman applicable accounting standards had been followed, June 28, 2022 DIN: 00110996 along with proper explanation relating to material
departures;
Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for the year ended
of the Bank for that period;
March 31, 2022.
99

--- Page 162 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE A
FORM No. MR-3
SECRETARIAL AUDIT REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2022
[Pursuant to Section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and Rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] To, (iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and
The Members, Bye-laws framed thereunder;
good corporate practices by ICICI Bank Limited (hereinafter
Investment and External Commercial Borrowings;
basis for evaluating the corporate conducts/statutory under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
compliances and expressing our opinion thereon. Act, 1992 (‘SEBI Act’):
papers, minute books, forms and returns filed and other (Substantial Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers)
records maintained by the Company, to the extent the Regulations, 2011;
secretarial audit, the explanations and clarifications given (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations,
to us and the representations made by the Management 2015;
pandemic, we hereby report that in our opinion, the
to time;
and compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the of India (Share Based Employee Benefits and
manner and subject to the reporting made hereinafter:
Sweat Equity) Regulations, 2021;
and The Securities and Exchange Board of India
ended on March 31, 2022 according to the provisions of:
(Issue and Listing of Non-Convertible Securities)
(i) The Companies Act, 2013 (the Act) and the rules Regulations, 2021;
made thereunder;
100

--- Page 163 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
and dealing with client; (Not applicable to the We have also examined compliance with the applicable
Company during the audit period); clauses of the following:
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2009 Company Secretaries of India with respect to board
and The Securities and Exchange Board of India and general meetings.
(Delisting of Equity Shares) Regulations, 2021;
(Buyback of Securities) Regulations, 2018 (Not
Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
(i) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
Regulations, Guidelines, standards etc. mentioned above.
(Merchant Bankers) Regulations, 1992;
` 3 Crores on the Bank. This penalty has been
(Debenture Trustee) Regulations, 1993;
(m) The Securities and Exchange Board of India
paid the penalty amount to RBI.
(Foreign Portfolio Investors) Regulations, 2019;
(o) The Securities and Exchange Board of India the provisions of Section 46(4)(i) read with Section
(Depositories and Participant) Regulations, 2018;
Circulars, Notifications and Guidelines issued by
amount to RBI.
the RBI from time to time;
We further report that:
composition of the Board of Directors that took place
Financial Institutions Act, 1993;
during the period under review were carried out in
(d) The Shops and Establishments Act, 1953 compliance with the provisions of the Act.
101

--- Page 164 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Adequate notice was given to all directors to schedule the We further report that the following events occurred Board Meetings, agenda and detailed notes on agenda during the audit period which have a major bearing on were sent at least seven days in advance, and a system the Company’s affairs in pursuance of the laws, rules,
exists for seeking and obtaining further information and regulations, guidelines, standards etc. referred to above:
1. During the financial year ended March 31, 2022, the
for meaningful participation at the meeting.
Unpublished Price Sensitive Information (UPSI)) were sent to ` 35,978,602,276 and has complied with the
at a notice of less than 7 days, the unanimous consent applicable laws.
nature of Debentures of face value of ` 1,000,000/-
the minutes.
each aggregating to ` 194,224,000,000 on private
Decisions at the Meetings of the Board of Directors and of placement basis in the domestic market.
the Committees thereof were taken with requisite majority.
processes in the Company commensurate with the size face value of ` 2 each under the Employee Stock
and operations of the Company to monitor and ensure Option Scheme.
compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations
and guidelines.
Date : April 23, 2022 PR No.: 723/2020
This Report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as Annexure A and forms an integral part of this report.
102

--- Page 165 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
’ANNEXURE A’
To, The Members, ICICI Bank Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these secretarial records based on our audit.
facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the process and practices, we followed provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of
the Company.
4. Where ever required, we have obtained the Management representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and
regulations and happening of events etc.
5. The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the
responsibility of management. Our examination was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or
effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
103

--- Page 166 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE B
CERTIFICATE OF NON-DISQUALIFICATION OF DIRECTORS
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(3) and Para C (10)(i) of Schedule V to the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015] To, The Members of ICICI Bank Limited ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli Circle, Old Padra Road, Vadodara - 390007 We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of ICICI Bank Limited having CIN L65190GJ1994PLC021012 and having registered office at ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli Circle, Old Padra Road, Vadodara - 390007 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with clause 10(i) of Para C of Schedule V
to the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015.
Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India or the Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such
other statutory authority.
Mr. G. C. Chaturvedi (DIN: 00110996) was appointed as nominee director of the Central Government in Infrastructure Leasing and
Financial Services Limited and IL&FS Energy Development Company Limited on October 1, 2018 and November 01, 2018 respectively.
of the Companies Act, 2013 to such newly appointed Directors. As per the information available in public domain, we could find no
further order to the contrary till the date of furnishing this certificate.
of appointment pursuant to SC order and MCA order, the director is a nominee director of the Central Government and accordingly,
we assume that the immunity from disqualification is available to the said director on the date of furnishing this certificate.
104

--- Page 167 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Ensuring the eligibility for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with
which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
105

--- Page 168 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE C
ANNUAL REPORT ON CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES 1. Brief outline on CSR Policy of the Company of development that require investments and intervention, and which can help to realize India’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has been a
long-standing commitment at ICICI Bank and the ICICI potential for growth and prosperity.
stakeholders within the Bank, the Group and the
projects and CSR activities that would be undertaken.
projects in specific areas, and has built capabilities
the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”).
is based on the belief that growth and development
link to the Bank’s revised CSR policy is:
There were four Meetings of the Committee during fiscal 2022 – April 20, 2021, May 26, 2021, October 7, 2021 and
January 11, 2022.
6. Vibha Paul Rishi Independent Director 4^ -
(Member of CSR Committee w.e.f.
January 23, 2022)
* Two Meetings of the Committee were held during fiscal 2022 post induction of Girish Chandra Chaturvedi on the Committee.
^ No Meetings of the Committee were held during fiscal 2022 post induction of Vibha Paul Rishi on the Committee.
106

--- Page 169 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
3. P rovide the web-link where Composition of Policy) Rules, 2014 and amount required for set CSR Committee, CSR Policy and CSR projects off for the financial year, if any approved by the Board are disclosed on the website of the Company. Sr. Financial Amount Amount Link to the Bank’s corporate social responsibility No. Year available for required to be page is: set-off from set-off for the preceding financial year, https://www.icicibank.com/aboutus/corporate- financial years if any (in `
social-responsibility.page?
7. (a) Two percent of average net profit of the
projects through external agencies during fiscal 2022.
spent in Total amount transferred to Unspent Amount transferred to any fund specified under
fiscal 2022 CSR Account as per section 135(6) Schedule VII as per second proviso to section 135(5).
107

--- Page 170 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(b) Details of CSR amount spent against on-going projects for the financial year Sr. Name of Item from Local Location of the Project Amount Amount Amount Mode of Mode of implementation No. the project the list of area Project duration allocated spent transferred impleme- – through implementing activities in (Yes / for the in the to Unspent ntation agency Schedule VII No) project (in current CSR Direct State1 Districts Name CSR to the Act ` million) financial Account (Yes/No) registration year (in ` for the number million) project as per Section 135(6) (in ` million) 1. Skill Livelihood No AP, Assam, Multiple 36 140.0 41.0 Nil No ICICI CSR training enhancement Bihar, districts months Foundation 00001979 through projects Chhattisgarh, (28) for Inclusive ICICI Delhi, Gujarat, Growth Academy Haryana, J&K, for Skills Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, MP, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, TN, Telangana,
UP, WB
Total 41.0 1 Includes Union Territories AP: Andhra Pradesh, J&K: Jammu and Kashmir, MP: Madhya Pradesh, TN: Tamil Nadu, UP: Uttar Pradesh, WB: West Bengal (c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year Sr. Name of the Item from the list of Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of implementation – No. project activities in Schedule VII area Project spent impleme- through implementing agency to the Act (Yes/ State1 Districts for the ntation Name CSR No) project Direct registration (in ` (Yes/No) number million) 1. Covid-19 relief Healthcare No AP, Arunachal Multiple districts 1,000.0 No ICICI CSR (No. of Pradesh, Assam, (283) Foundation 00001979 projects: 1,066) Bihar, Chhattisgarh, for Inclusive Delhi, Gujarat, Growth Haryana, HP, J&K, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Ladakh, MP, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, TN, Telangana, Tripura, UP, Uttarakhand,
WB
2. Rural Livelihood enhancement No AP, Assam, Bihar, Multiple districts 504.8 No ICICI Foundation CSR Livelihood projects Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, (116) for Inclusive 00001979 projects Haryana, HP, J&K, Growth (No. of Jharkhand, Karnataka, projects: 113) Kerala, Ladakh, MP, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, TN, Telangana, Tripura, UP, Uttarakhand, WB 3. Social & Promoting education No AP, Assam, Bihar, Multiple districts 388.8 No ICICI CSR environmental healthcare, empowering Chhattisgarh, (281) Foundation 00001979 projects women, ensuring Delhi, Gujarat, for Inclusive (No. of environmental Haryana, HP, J&K, Growth projects: 132) sustainability, ecological Jharkhand, Karnataka, balance, protection of Kerala, Ladakh, flora and fauna, animal MP, Maharashtra, welfare, agroforestry, Nagaland, Odisha, maintaining quality Punjab, Rajasthan, TN, of soil, air and water, Telangana, Tripura, UP, making available safe Uttarakhand, WB drinking water 108

--- Page 171 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Sr. Name of the Item from the list of Local Location of the Amount Mode of Mode of implementation – No. project activities in Schedule VII area Project spent impleme- through implementing agency to the Act (Yes/ State1 Districts for the ntation Name CSR No) project Direct registration (in ` (Yes/No) number million) 4. Rural Rural development No AP, Assam, Bihar, Multiple districts 340.2 Yes - - development Chandigarh, (420) and related Chhattisgarh, Dadra activities & Nagar Haveli, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, HP, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, MP, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Punjab, Rajasthan, Sikkim, TN, Telangana, UP, WB 5. Water Ensuring environmental No Assam, Bihar, Multiple districts 304.6 No ICICI CSR conservation sustainability Chhattisgarh, Delhi, (84) Foundation 00001979 (No. of Haryana, HP, J&K, for Inclusive projects: 1,740) Jharkhand, Karnataka, Growth MP, Maharashtra, Manipur, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, TN, UP, Uttarakhand 6. Social Promoting education No Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bengaluru, Pune, 50.0 Yes - - Awareness TN, WB Mumbai, Chennai, Kolkata 7. Promoting Promoting Sports No Bihar, Manipur Patna, Imphal 8.1 Yes - - Sports West 8. Waste Cleanliness and Hygiene No Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Raipur, 7.7 Yes - - management MP, Maharashtra, Alappuzha, projects Puducherry, Punjab, TN Bhopal, Jabalpur, Sagar, Satna, Solapur, Firozpur, Tiruppur, Viluppuram, Virudhunagar 9. Covid-19 relief Healthcare No Maharashtra Mumbai 6.6 Yes - - 10. Protecting Ensuring environmental No Assam, Gujarat, Guwahati, 4.0 Yes - - environment sustainability Haryana, HP, J&K, MP, Sabarkantha, Maharashtra, Punjab, TN Rohtak, Sirsa, Sonepat, Kangra, Jammu, Indore, Hingoli, Ludhiana, Tirunelveli, Tiruvannamalai, Virudhanagar 11. Drinking water Making available safe No AP, Chhattisgarh, Krishna, 2.9 Yes - - facilities drinking water Gujarat, MP, Visakhapatnam, Maharashtra, Punjab, Raipur, Gir Rajasthan, UP Somnath, Patan, Bhopal, Ahmednagar, Ratnagiri, Sangli, Solapur, Faridkot, Jalandhar, Jaipur, Basti 12. Healthcare Promoting healthcare No Maharashtra Pune 2.5 No Vidhi Centre for CSR Legal Policy 00000775 13. Education Promoting education No Gujarat, Haryana, TN Ahmedabad, 1.6 Yes - - Karnal, Tiruchirappalli 14. Supporting Livelihood enhancement, No Assam, Chhattisgarh, Majuli, Raipur, 1.5 Yes - - socially and promoting healthcare, Maharashtra Mumbai economically reducing inequalities backward groups 15. Financial Promoting education No Gujarat, Karnataka Ahmedabad, 0.9 No Disha Trust CSR counselling Bengaluru 00023590 Total 2,624.2 1 Includes Union Territories AP: Andhra Pradesh, HP: Himachal Pradesh, J&K: Jammu and Kashmir, MP: Madhya Pradesh, TN: Tamil Nadu, UP: Uttar Pradesh, WB: West Bengal 109

--- Page 172 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(d) Amount spent in Administrative Overheads
Not included in CSR expense.
(b) D etails of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial
year(s):
110

--- Page 173 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Sr. Details of capital Date of creation or Amount Details of entity or public authority or beneficiary No. asset acquisition spent under whose name the capital asset is registered (` million) 4. Dialysis machines Between April 1, 2021 130.1 Various hospitals in the states of Assam, Bihar, to March 31, 2022 Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, MP, Rajasthan, TN 5. Medical equipments Between April 1, 2021 113.9 Various hospitals in the states of Assam, AP, Bihar, including X-ray to March 31, 2022 Chhattisgarh, Delhi, HP, J&K, Jharkhand, Karnataka, machines, ECG Ladakh, MP, Maharashtra, Odisha, TN, Tripura, UP, machines, cryogenic Uttarakhand, WB tank, radiography system, etc 6. Covid-19 facility Between April 1, 2021 96.3 Covid-19 facility created in Thiruvananthapuram to March 31, 2022 (Kerala), Muzaffarpur (Bihar), Kolkata (WB) 7. Oxygen plants, Between April 1, 2021 91.5 Various hospitals in the states of MP, Maharashtra, including medical to March 31, 2022 Punjab, Rajasthan, Telangana, UP, Uttarakhand, WB gas pipelines 8. Ambulances Between April 1, 2021 87.0 Various beneficiaries in the states of AP, Assam, to March 31, 2022 Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, HP, J&K, Jharkhand, Ladakh, MP, Maharashtra, Manipur, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, UP, Uttarakhand, WB 9. Equipment for Between April 1, 2021 42.1 Beneficiaries in AP, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, J&K, animal/food to March 31, 2022 Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, MP, Maharashtra, processing centres Manipur, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, TN, Telangana, Uttarakhand 10. Power backup for Between April 1, 2021 26.9 Various government hospitals in the states of medical facilities to March 31, 2022 Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, J&K, Ladakh, MP, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Sikkim, UP, Uttarakhand, WB 11. Oxygen cylinders Between April 1, 2021 26.2 Various beneficiaries in the states of Bihar, Delhi, to March 31, 2022 Gujarat, Ladakh, Maharashtra, Manipur, UP, Uttarakhand, WB 12. E-rickshaws for December 2021 25.0 Various beneficiaries in Kaushambi district, Uttar livelihood Pradesh, 212207 13. Hospital beds Between April 1, 2021 22.7 Various government hospitals in the states of to March 31, 2022 Assam, AP, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, HP, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Rajasthan, TN, WB 14. Water storage tanks March 2022 19.4 92 schools in Mahasamund and Mungeli districts, Chhattisgarh 15. Equipment for February-March 2022 14.8 Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre cancer care (HBCH & RC), Uma Nagar, Rasulpur, SKMCH Campus, Bihar 842004 16. Rural bridges March 31, 2022 14.4 Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organization (HESCO), Village Shuklapur PO Ambiwala, Dehradun, Uttarakhand 248007 17. Animal husbandry Between April 1, 2021 13.6 Beneficiaries in Assam, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, units to March 31, 2022 Kerala, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha, Tripura, TN, WB 111

--- Page 174 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Sr. Details of capital Date of creation or Amount Details of entity or public authority or beneficiary No. asset acquisition spent under whose name the capital asset is registered (` million) 18. Watershed Between April 1, 2021 12.8 Beneficiaries in Raichur and Bengaluru districts in management to March 31, 2022 Karnataka, Beed and Jalna districts in Maharashtra, and Kalahandi, Kandhamal, Kendujhar and Koraput
districts of Odisha.
government schools in Maharashtra and Barnala, Gurdaspur, Mansa,
Moga and Sangrur districts in Punjab.
11. S pecify the reason(s), if the company has failed to spend 2.0% of the average net profit as per
section 135(5).
Executive Director CSR Committee Chairman
DIN: 03620913 DIN: 00110996
June 28, 2022 112

--- Page 175 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNEXURE 1: SUMMARY OF IMPACT ASSESSMENT STUDY
1. Dialysis project • Employers have rated ICICI Academy for Skills at This initiative provides dialysis machines to support 4 on a scale of 5 (with 5 being the highest) on its the dialysis centres across India. The aim was to industrial relevance for its programme provide free/affordable, quality dialysis to the patients • 91% of the candidates believe that the Academy who have less or no access to these facilities. The key has substantially or partially contributed in their
findings were as follows:
the South, East, West and the North-East regions impacted scenario) and ` 8.34 (in business as
with representations of both genders and various usual scenario).
various Direct Benefit Transfers (DBT) under flagship
restrictions across India.
government schemes. The key findings are:
to manage the dialysis machines, boosting to direct benefit transfers linked to various
economic opportunities for the local people and government schemes.
mitigating workforce shortage.
ICICI Foundation operates 28 skill training centres
under the ICICI Academy for Skills. The impact village level.
with knowledge partners, employers and staff at the
savings and financial planning.
academy. The key findings are:
• Centres in Tier 2 cities are catering to 59% of and make them socially responsible citizens through
the trainees visual communication.
113

--- Page 176 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The key findings of an assessment of the activities • Impact:
undertaken in fiscal 2021, which involved installation o Number of applications received by the
and maintenance of signages in public spaces were:
commuters everyday, resulting in 140 crores placement rates have been above 98% for
visibility impressions annually. The signages postgraduate students.
• The themes covered through the awareness
promote the overall development of the community.
The three community halls have been developed in
Development Goals (SDGs).
ICICI Bank was among the initial participants, helping
cultural events and skill training events.
was given in fiscal 2021 to upgrade and modernize
and Sustainability.
the KREA dining facility for students. The key
findings are: • Impact created:
o Provision of community owned space
• Inclusiveness:
o The institute has received applications from
over 20 states with the regional disparity • Relevance:
o 93% respondents stated that the new
the institute.
corporates to recognize the relevant skills
• Effectiveness:
o 83% respondents stated that the centres
its pedagogy on current industry needs.
114

--- Page 177 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
• Sustainability: are in charge of the equipment’s general safety. The
o The use of the halls shall be for/by the study assessed the program on the following pillars:
also be used in the maintenance of the be very helpful in engaging the interest of the
halls/centres. students in a more efficient manner.
by ICICI Bank to offer quality education to low-
content in an interactive manner.
equipment such as smart television and tablets were installation of Smart TVs will boost the overall
provided to the schools and the school authorities retention rate and attendance of students.
Link to the impact assessment reports on the Bank’s website:
https://www.icicibank.com/aboutus/corporate-social-responsibility.page?
115

--- Page 178 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
DAIRUEDCTIOTROS’R RSEP’O CRTERTIFICATE ON
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
To the Members of We have carried out an examination of the relevant ICICI Bank Limited records of the Bank in accordance with the Guidance Note on Certification of Corporate Governance issued We have examined the compliance of conditions of by the Institute of the Chartered Accountants of India Corporate Governance by ICICI Bank Limited (the ‘Bank’), (the ICAI), the Standards on Auditing specified under for the year ended March 31, 2022, as stipulated in Section 143(10) of the Companies Act, 2013, in so far as regulations 17 to 27 and clauses (b) to (i) of regulation 46(2) and paragraphs C, D, E of schedule V of the Securities applicable for the purpose of this certificate and as per and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and the Guidance Note on Reports or Certificates for Special Disclosure Requirements) Regulations 2015 (‘Listing Purposes issued by the ICAI which requires that we Regulations’) and as amended from time to time. comply with the ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics
issued by the ICAI.
internal control procedures to ensure the compliance with
and Related Services Engagements.
the conditions of the Corporate Governance stipulated in
Listing Regulations.
opinion on the financial statements of the Bank. C, D, E of schedule V of the Listing Regulations during the
year ended March 31, 2022, as applicable.
compliance with Corporate Governance requirements by efficiency or effectiveness with which the management
the Bank. has conducted the affairs of the Bank.
Membership No.: 118580 Membership No.: 117348
UDIN: 22118580AKNYZK6495 UDIN: 22117348AKOKWC8545
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai Date: June 8, 2022 Date: June 8, 2022 116

--- Page 179 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT decline of 6.0% in fiscal 2021. On a gross value added basis, the agriculture sector grew by 3.0% during fiscal The global economy recovered from the impact of the 2022 compared to a growth of 3.3% in fiscal 2021. The pandemic during calendar year 2021. Growth in global industrial sector grew by 10.3% during fiscal 2022 gross domestic product (GDP) improved to 6.1% during compared to a decline of 3.3% in fiscal 2021 and the calendar year 2021 compared to a decline of 3.1% services sector grew by 8.4% during fiscal 2022 compared in calendar year 2020. However, global economies
to a decline of 7.8% during fiscal 2021.
year largely driven by food and fuel prices. Average CPI
crude oil and commodity prices increased during the year.
inflation during fiscal 2022 was 5.5%.
Interest rates
several economies, including the US Federal Reserve.
that started in February 2022, leading to a sharp increase
combat the impact of the first wave of Covid-19 pandemic.
in crude oil prices and inflation, and volatility in financial
The policy rate was kept unchanged till March 2022.
sustain growth and mitigate the impact of Covid-19 on the
growth in the later part of fiscal 2022.
mild, though it had led to re-imposition of some localised/ accommodation to ensure that inflation remains within the
regional restrictive measures in the country. During fiscal target going forward, while supporting growth.
10.4% during fiscal 2021 and private final consumption (SLR) asset and shall not be eligible for Cash Reserve Ratio
expenditure grew by 7.9% in fiscal 2022 compared to a (CRR) maintenance.
117

--- Page 180 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
On May 4, 2022, the MPC announced an increase in the According to RBI’s Financial Stability Report of June 2022, repo rate by 40 basis points from 4.00% to 4.40%. non-performing assets (NPA) of scheduled commercial Accordingly, the SDF rate was revised to 4.15% and banks declined during fiscal 2022, with gross NPA ratio the marginal standing facility rate to 4.65%. The MPC at 5.9% and net NPA ratio at 1.7% at March 31, 2022 continued to remain accommodative while focusing on compared to a gross NPA ratio of 7.5% and net NPA withdrawal of accommodation to ensure that inflation ratio of 2.4% at March 31, 2021. Restructuring of loans remains within the target going forward, while supporting for entities impacted by the second Covid-19 wave under growth. In line with the decision to withdraw liquidity, the Resolution Framework 2.0 stood at 1.6% of total advances
CRR was increased by 50 basis points from 4.00% to 4.50% as at December 31, 2021.
introduction of the Digital Rupee by RBI. The government
to 4.65% and the marginal standing facility rate to 5.15%.
Russia-Ukraine war, the Rupee touched ` 77.07 per
and related enterprises.
Banking sector trends of their Boards. This utilization was permitted up to
March 31, 2022.
118

--- Page 181 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
implementation of the resolution plan. The last date permitted banks to consider government securities for invocation of resolution under the frameworks up to 16.0% of NDTL as level 1 high quality liquid was September 30, 2021, with the last date for assets (HQLA) under the Facility to Avail Liquidity implementation being December 31, 2021. for Liquidity Coverage Ratio compared to the earlier level of 15.0%. Accordingly, the total amount within • RBI announced an increase in the priority sector the mandatory statutory liquidity ratio that can be lending targets for small and marginal farmers considered for liquidity coverage ratio calculation and weaker sections, in a phased manner, starting
was increased from 17.0% of NDTL to 18.0% of NDTL.
10.0% in fiscal 2021 to 11.0% in fiscal 2022, 11.5% in accounting for investment securities with Indian
fiscal 2023 and 12.0% in fiscal 2024.
regard to compensation of wholetime directors/ a percentage to total investments as also the
CEOs/material risk takers and control function ceiling on SLR securities that can be held in HTM.
staff. As per the notification, grant of share-linked The framework if approved will be effective from
compensation should be fair-valued and recognized April 1, 2023.
uncertainty regarding the future trajectory of the Covid-19
Token Service Providers from January 1, 2022.
due to inflationary concerns, RBI has increased the repo
September 30, 2022.
to manage liquidity risks, RBI increased the threshold conditions tightening, it could pose further challenges for
limit for deposits and other extension of funds made the Indian economy and the banking sector.
In fiscal 2022, the Bank maintained a strategic focus on
ratio (NSFR).
119

--- Page 182 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
lending to the corporate sector based on risk assessment ecosystem comprising retailers, online businesses and
and pricing. The Bank focused on maintaining a strong e-commerce firms.
Appetite and Enterprise Risk Management framework resources and strengthening the branch network
articulates the Bank’s risk appetite and drills it down into a where required.
franchise, maintain a stable and healthy funding profile 360-degree coverage of customers and increasing wallet
and competitive advantage in cost of funds. share.
economy. The key elements of the strategy to maximize unique opportunities for acquiring new customers and
the Bank’s share of these opportunities are: enhancing service delivery and customer experience.
The Bank leverages its branch network, digital channels, startups, and co-develop products aligned with the Bank’s
partnerships and presence across various ecosystems to digital roadmap.
customers and their ecosystems. Using ‘ICICI STACK business opportunities while operating within the
for Corporates’, the Bank offers customized solutions to guardrails of compliance and risk.
120

--- Page 183 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
and reliability, and creating delightful and digitally from 3.69% in fiscal 2021 to 3.96% in fiscal 2022 and an
native customer experiences to enable sustainable increase of 13.5% in the average interest-earning assets.
profitable growth.
personalized solutions and value added features to subsidiaries/joint ventures increased by 48.2% from
customers and enable effective data driven cross-sell ` 12.34 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 18.29 billion in fiscal 2022.
customers by digitising the credit underwriting process, Limited (ICICI Life) did not pay any final dividend for fiscal
with instant loan approvals.
Bank, One RoE” emphasizing the need to maximize its expenses increased by 24.0% from ` 215.61 billion in
share of the target opportunity across all products and fiscal 2021 to ` 267.33 billion in fiscal 2022.
principle and serves customers with humility. The aim
of ` 36.70 billion.
performing and other assets decreased from ` 107.49
Core operating profit increased by 22.3% from ` 313.51 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 61.64 billion in fiscal 2022.
from ` 50.46 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 9.03 billion in fiscal
non-performing loans to make it more conservative.
wrote-back Covid-19 related provision amounting to
billion in fiscal 2022.
121

--- Page 184 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
a total contingency provision of ` 74.50 billion, deposits increased by 20.1% from ` 4,316.23 billion at
including the Covid-19 related contingency provision of March 31, 2021 to ` 5,184.37 billion at March 31, 2022.
tax rate increased from 19.8% in fiscal 2021 to 23.7%
March 31, 2022.
of income. Fiscal 2021 included a significant amount of The Bank had a branch network of 5,418 branches and an
capital gain on sale of stake in subsidiaries, which incurs ATM network of 13,626 ATMs at March 31, 2022.
lower income tax.
2022 primarily due to an increase in domestic advances
to 16.80% at March 31, 2021.
in a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020 which
` 1,678.22 billion at March 31, 2022.
ratio was 131.09% for the three months ended March 31, and the re-imposition of localised/regional lock-down
2022 as against the requirement of 100.00%. measures in certain parts of the country.
` 5,008.99 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 5,461.35 billion trajectory of the pandemic may have an impact on the
at March 31, 2022. Current and savings account (CASA) results of the Bank and the Group.
122

--- Page 185 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
OPERATING RESULTS DATA
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the operating results data.
Profit after tax ` 161.93 ` 233.39 44.1
1. Includes merchant foreign exchange income and margin on customer derivative transactions.
2. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
3. Prior period figures have been re-grouped/re-arranged, where necessary.
KEY RATIOS
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key financial ratios.
Book value per share (`) 213.28 245.38
1. Return on average equity is the ratio of the net profit after tax to the quarterly average equity share capital and reserves.
2. Return on average assets is the ratio of net profit after tax to average assets.
3. Cost represents operating expense. Income represents net interest income and non-interest income.
4. Excluding Covid-19 related provisions of ` 47.50 billion.
The return on average equity, return on average assets and earnings per share increased primarily due to an increase in
profit after tax.
123

--- Page 186 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
NET INTEREST INCOME AND SPREAD ANALYSIS
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the net interest income and spread analysis.
Interest spread 3.24% 3.50% -
1. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The cost of funds decreased by 54 basis points from offset, in part, by an increase in cost of borrowings due to
4.25% in fiscal 2021 to 3.71% in fiscal 2022. The interest change in borrowings mix.
The net interest margin for domestic operations increased 2022 primarily due to a decrease in yield on advances,
by 23 basis points from 3.84% in fiscal 2021 to 4.07% in offset, in part, by a decrease in cost of funds.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the trend in yield, cost, spread and margin.
124

--- Page 187 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The yield on average interest-earning assets decreased by foreign government securities was primarily due to
28 basis points from 7.49% in fiscal 2021 to 7.21% in fiscal surplus Rupee liquidity deployed in foreign currency.
2022 primarily due to the following factors:
had reduced the CRR from 4.0% to 3.0% as a one-
benchmarks and 7% had interest rates linked to T-bills.
in phases during fiscal 2021 and by an additional 5 February 2021, RBI increased the CRR to 3.5% for the
basis points during fiscal 2022. RBI had reduced the first two months of fiscal 2022 and to 4.0% thereafter.
amount and timing of such income depends on the nature
the yield on advances in fiscal 2022.
and timing of determinations by tax authorities and are
The yield on overseas advances decreased by 98 basis hence neither consistent nor predictable.
yielding non-India linked loans and increase in low
following factors:
yielding trade finance loans.
in total deposits. The cost of domestic term deposits
the proportion of domestic advances in total advances.
decreased by 27 basis points from 6.25% in fiscal deposit rates for select maturities in phases during
2021 to 5.98% in fiscal 2022. The yield on Indian fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2022.
in fiscal 2022 primarily due to a decrease in average
for fiscal 2021.
125

--- Page 188 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
primarily due to a decrease in proportion of lower cost The Bank’s interest income, yield on advances, net call money and Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) interest income and net interest margin are impacted borrowings, offset, in part, by a decrease in cost of by systemic liquidity, the competitive environment, refinance borrowings and bond borrowings. The level of additions to non-performing loans, regulatory decrease in cost of refinance borrowings and bond developments, monetary policy and the economic and borrowings was primarily due to maturity/repayment geopolitical factors. Interest rates on about 47.7% of of higher costs borrowings and new borrowings at Bank’s domestic loans are linked to external market lower cost. The cost of overseas borrowings decreased benchmarks. Any differential movements in the by 73 basis points from 1.84% in fiscal 2021 to 1.11% external benchmark rates vis-à-vis cost of funds of the in fiscal 2022 primarily due to maturity/repayment of Bank may impact the Bank’s net interest income and
bond borrowings which were relatively higher cost net interest margin.
and decrease in cost of term borrowings.
The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the trend in average interest-earning assets and average
interest-bearing liabilities:
Total interest-bearing liabilities ` 9,438.50 ` 10,478.20 11.0%
1. Average investments and average borrowings include average short-term repurchase transactions.
2. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
average advances by ` 1,173.08 billion, average other ` 1,358.98 billion, offset, in part, by a decrease in average
interest-earning assets by ` 149.84 billion and average borrowings by ` 319.29 billion.
investments by ` 97.81 billion.
billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 7,716.34 billion in fiscal 2022 due to an increase in average term deposits and average CASA
to an increase of 20.1% in average domestic advances, deposits.
Average borrowings decreased by 23.4% from ` 1,364.09
advances.
Average interest-earning investments increased by 3.7% primarily due to a decrease in average call and term money
from ` 2,646.70 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 2,744.51 billion borrowing, RBI borrowings and bond borrowings.
Fee income primarily includes fees from retail customers
certificates and bonds and debentures.
and balance with other banks, offset, in part, by a decrease banking fees, income from foreign exchange transactions
in LAF lending to RBI. and margin on derivative transactions.
126

--- Page 189 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Fee income increased by 23.9% from ` 126.59 billion during April-May 2020 followed by gradual easing of
in fiscal 2021 to ` 156.87 billion in fiscal 2022 primarily lockdown measures.
due to an increase in transaction banking fees, income
DIVIDEND FROM SUBSIDIARIES/JOINT
from foreign exchange and derivatives products and
VENTURES
lending linked fees. Fee income for fiscal 2021 was impacted due to lower borrowing and investment Dividend from subsidiaries/joint ventures increased by activity by customers and lower consumer spends 48.2% from ` 12.34 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 18.29 billion
caused by the nation-wide lockdown announced in fiscal 2022.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of dividend received from subsidiaries/joint ventures:
Total ` 12.343 ` 18.29
1. 0.00 represents insignificant amount.
2. A ll amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
ICICI Life did not pay any final dividend for fiscal 2020. As a result, there was a decrease in dividend income from insurance
subsidiaries in fiscal 2021.
Other income
Other income increased from ` 0.30 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 0.98 billion in fiscal 2022.
OPERATING EXPENSES
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the principal components of operating expenses.
Total operating expenses ` 215.61 ` 267.33 24.0%
1. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
127

--- Page 190 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Operating expenses primarily include employee Other administrative expenses expenses, depreciation on assets and other administrative Other administrative expenses primarily include rent, taxes expenses. Operating expenses increased by 24.0% from and lighting, advertisements, sales promotion, repairs
` 215.61 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 267.33 billion in fiscal 2022.
pay. Further, employee expenses in fiscal 2022 includes an
easing of lockdown measures.
The employee base includes sales executives, employees
reconstruction companies.
on fixed term contracts and interns.
primarily due to higher capitalisation of IT systems and ICICI Life, 4.21% equity shareholding in ICICI Securities and
software which attract higher depreciation rates. made a net gain of ` 36.70 billion.
PROVISIONS AND CONTINGENCIES (EXCLUDING PROVISIONS FOR TAX)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the components of provisions and contingencies.
Total provisions and contingencies (excluding provision for tax) ` 162.14 ` 86.41 (46.7%)
1. Includes restructuring related provision.
2. I ncludes write-back of Covid-19 related provision amounting to ` 10.50 billion for the year ended March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021:
provision made amounting to ` 47.50 billion).
3. Includes contingency provision amounting to ` 10.25 billion on a prudent basis for the year ended March 31, 2022.
4. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
128

--- Page 191 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
In the case of corporate loans and advances, provisions books. The Bank also makes additional contingency are made for sub-standard and doubtful assets at rates provision with regard to certain standard assets. The prescribed by RBI. Loss assets and the unsecured portion contingency provision is included in ”Other Liabilities and
of doubtful assets are fully provided. For impaired loans Provisions”.
the RBI guidelines and host country guidelines, provisions
Covid-19 related provision.
provisions on non-performing retail loans and advances provisioning requirement, offset, in part, by provision
held by the Bank are higher than the minimum regulatory made on loans restructured under Resolution Framework.
requirements. and change in provisioning rate on certain non-performing
loans to make it more conservative.
four quarters starting from the quarter in which fraud technical/prudential write-offs) on NPA’s increased from
has been detected. In respect of non-retail loans where 77.7% at March 31, 2021 to 79.2% at March 31, 2022.
provided immediately. In case of fraud in retail accounts,
` 3.77 billion in fiscal 2022.
as per RBI guidelines. general provision held at March 31, 2022 was ` 40.94
billion (March 31, 2021: ` 36.34 billion).
` 10.25 billion on a prudent basis. Accordingly,
with the applicable RBI guidelines.
The Bank makes additional provisions as per RBI guidelines ` 64.25 billion, the Bank holds a total contingency
for the cases where viable resolution plan has not been provision of ` 74.50 billion at March 31, 2022.
The income tax expense increased from ` 39.90 billion in
per RBI guidelines.
On prudent basis, the Bank has made Covid-19 related rate increased from 19.8% in fiscal 2021 to 23.7% in fiscal
provision with regard to certain borrowers, including 2022 primarily due to change in composition of income.
during fiscal 2021 under the extant RBI guidelines. This on sale of stake in subsidiaries, which attracts lower
provision is included as contingency provision in the income tax.
129

--- Page 192 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
FINANCIAL CONDITION
ASSETS
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the principal components of assets.
1. B anks in India are required to maintain a specified percentage, currently 18.00% (at March 31, 2022), of their net demand and time
liabilities by way of investments in instruments referred as SLR securities by RBI or liquid assets like cash and gold.
2. D eposits made in Rural Infrastructure Development Fund and other related deposits pursuant to shortfall in the amount required to
be lent to certain specified sectors called priority sector as per RBI guidelines.
3. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
Cash and cash equivalents
an increase in investment in certificate of deposits.
increased by 26.1% from ` 1,331.28 billion at March 31,
` 17.29 billion at March 31, 2021.
currency term money lent. LAF lending to RBI increased
primarily due to an increase in retail advances.
130

--- Page 193 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
` 768.30 billion at March 31, 2022. The business banking Fixed and other assets portfolio increased by 43.2% from ` 373.27 billion at Fixed assets (net block) increased by 5.6% from
March 31, 2021 to ` 534.37 billion at March 31, 2022.
SME advances increased by 33.6% from ` 302.84 billion
March 31, 2022.
at March 31, 2021 to ` 404.50 billion at March 31, 2022.
from ` 375.90 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 412.84 billion
derivative transactions.
at March 31, 2022.
LIABILITIES
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the principal components of liabilities (including capital and reserves).
Total liabilities ` 12,304.33 ` 14,112.98 14.7%
1. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
` 14,112.98 billion at March 31, 2022 due to a 14.2% increased by 20.1% from ` 4,316.23 billion at March 31,
increase in deposits, 17.0% increase in borrowings and 2021 to ` 5,184.37 billion at March 31, 2022.
15.6% increase in net worth.
increased by 23.5% from ` 2,454.75 billion in fiscal 2021
March 31, 2021 to ` 10,645.72 billion at March 31, 2022.
` 2,954.53 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 3,599.57 billion at and borrowings) for fiscal 2022 as compared to 35.5% for
March 31, 2022 and current account deposits increased fiscal 2021.
131

--- Page 194 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Deposits of overseas branches increased by 28.5% from increased from ` 299.43 billion at March 31, 2021 to
` 76.34 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 98.11 billion at ` 319.21 billion at March 31, 2022.
March 31, 2022.
primarily due to an increase in security deposits and mark-
Borrowings to-market amount on forex and derivative transactions.
part, by a decrease in subordinated debt and refinance March 31, 2022 primarily due to accretion to reserves out
borrowings. Net borrowings of overseas branches of retained profit.
OFF BALANCE SHEET ITEMS, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the principal components of contingent liabilities.
Total ` 26,486.42 ` 38,676.76
1. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
prefixed price at a future date. This item represents the activities in forwards to facilitate client flow and capture
notional principal amount of such contracts, which are opportunities in the forward market.
132

--- Page 195 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
March 31, 2021 to ` 25,912.44 billion at March 31, 2022 The Bank is obligated under a number of capital primarily due to an increase in outstanding position of contracts for purchase of fixed assets. Capital contracts overnight index swaps. These transactions are done are job orders of a capital nature, which have been for trading and market-making purposes with a view to committed. Estimated amounts of contracts remaining manage the interest rate risk. to be executed on capital account aggregated to ` 10.30 billion at March 31, 2022 as compared to Claims against the Bank, not acknowledged as debts,
` 8.60 billion at March 31, 2021.
against the Bank in the normal course of business and
CAPITAL RESOURCES
customer claims arising in fraud cases. In accordance The Bank actively manages its capital to meet regulatory with the Bank’s accounting policy and Accounting norms, current and future business needs and the risks in Standard 29, the Bank has reviewed and classified these its businesses. The capital management framework of the items as possible obligations based on legal opinion/ Bank is administered by the Finance Group and the Risk judicial precedents/assessment by the Bank. No provision Management Group under the supervision of the Board in excess of provisions already made in the financial and the Risk Committee. The capital adequacy position
statements is considered necessary.
and assessment is reported to the Board and the Risk
The Bank has issued guarantees to support regular business Committee periodically.
obligation. The guarantees are generally issued for a period to March 31, 2020 and thereafter further extended to
not exceeding 10 years. The credit risks associated with October 1, 2021.
At March 31, 2022, the Bank was required to maintain
to those relating to other types of financial instruments.
of 2.50% and capital surcharge of 0.20% on account of
cover potential losses under guarantees.
other obligations increased by 42.7% from ` 324.24 billion method for measurement of market risk and basic indicator
at March 31, 2021 to ` 462.81 billion at March 31, 2022. approach for measurement of operational risk.
133

--- Page 196 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the capital adequacy ratios computed in accordance with Basel
III guidelines of RBI:
Tier-2 capital adequacy ratio 1.06% 0.81%
1. Including retained earnings and post proposed mandatory appropriations and with appropriation of proposed dividend.
2. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
and total capital adequacy ratio was 19.16% as against the March 31, 2022 primarily due to decrease in the fixed
requirement of 11.70%. income portfolio.
` 1,693.13 billion at March 31, 2022 primarily due to
the capital charge by 12.5.
The capital management framework of the Bank includes
grandfathering period of Basel II Tier-2 bonds.
` 6,467.36 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 7,357.43 billion adequate level of capitalisation necessary to meet
at March 31, 2022 primarily due to an increase of regulatory norms and current and future business needs.
decrease in non-fund book. capital planning for a four-year time horizon, assessment of
material risks and the relationship between risk and capital.
134

--- Page 197 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The capital management framework is complemented • future strategy with regard to investments or by the risk management framework, which covers the divestments in subsidiaries; and policies, processes, methodologies and frameworks • evaluation of options to raise capital from domestic established for the management of material risks. Stress and overseas markets, as permitted by RBI from time testing, which is a key aspect of the internal capital
to time;
adequacy assessment process and the risk management
framework, provides an insight into the impact of extreme • assessment of going concern.
future periods. The Bank periodically assesses and refines
regulations while continuing to grow its business.
for that industry. The Bank’s Credit Risk Management
capital adequacy assessment process.
portfolio to any particular industry (other than retail loans)
• strategic focus, business plan and growth objectives;
internal rating and track record of the borrowers. The
testing;
exposure limits for lower rated borrowers and groups are
• perception of shareholders and investors; substantially lower than the regulatory limits.
The following tables set forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s exposure.
135

--- Page 198 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
` in billion, except percentages March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022 Industry Total % of total Total % of total exposure exposure exposure exposure Construction 330.37 2.3 385.13 2.3 Iron and steel (including iron and steel products) 228.28 1.6 367.01 2.2 Chemical and fertilisers 184.47 1.3 265.07 1.6 Automobiles 173.94 1.2 210.21 1.3 Metal and metal products (excluding iron and steel) 179.59 1.3 179.73 1.1 Mutual funds 189.36 1.3 177.72 1.1 Manufacturing products (excluding iron and steel and metal and metal products) 145.39 1.0 173.32 1.0 Other industries2 1,463.95 10.4 1,711.66 10.3 Total ` 14,222.95 100.0% ` 16,647.92 100.0% 1. I ncludes home loans, automobile loans, commercial business loans, dealer financing, personal loans, credit cards and loans against
securities.
2. O ther industries primarily include developer financing portfolio, gems and jewellery, mining, cement, food & beverages, textile,
shipping, drugs and pharmaceuticals, asset reconstruction company, venture capital funds and FMCG.
A- and above internally. The exposure to the top 10 borrower groups decreased from 11.6% of total exposure of the Bank
at March 31, 2021 to 10.3% at March 31, 2022.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s outstanding net advances:
- Business banking 373.27 534.37
- SME 302.84 404.50
- Corporate and others 1,766.35 1,923.84 - Overseas book ` 375.90 ` 412.84 The Bank’s capital allocation framework is focused on The overseas loan portfolio in US dollar terms grew by 5.9% growth in granular retail and rural lending and lending to year-on-year at March 31, 2022. The year-on-year increase the corporate sector with a focus on increase in lending to in the overseas loan portfolio was primarily due to increase higher rated corporates. Net retail advances increased by in the India-linked trade finance book. The overseas loan 19.7% in fiscal 2022 compared to an increase of 17.1% in portfolio was 4.8% of the overall loan book at March 31, total advances. The share of net retail advances increased 2022. The corporate fund and non-fund outstanding, net of from 51.8% of net advances at March 31, 2021 to 52.9% cash/bank/financial institutions/insurance backed lending, of net advances at March 31, 2022. Including the non-fund was USD 3.65 billion at March 31, 2022. Out of USD 3.65 based outstanding, the proportion of retail in the portfolio billion, 82.4% of the outstanding was to Indian corporates was 43.8% at March 31, 2022. and their subsidiaries and joint ventures and 9.5% of the 136

--- Page 199 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
outstanding was to non-India companies with Indian or Out of USD 3.65 billion, about 4.2% was to companies India-linked operations and activities. The portfolio in this owned by NRIs/ PIOs and 3.9% of the outstanding was to segment is well rated and the Indian operations of these other non-India companies which is less than 1.0% of the companies are target customers for the Bank’s deposit and total portfolio of the Bank. The non-India linked corporate transaction banking franchise. The Bank would continue portfolio reduced by 48.2% from about USD 1.24 billion
to pursue risk-calibrated opportunities in this segment. year-on-year to USD 641 million at March 31, 2022.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the composition of the Bank’s net outstanding retail advances.
Total retail advances2 ` 3,797.35 100.0% ` 4,546.35 100.0%
1. Includes loans against securities and dealer financing.
2. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The following table sets forth, at the dated indicated, the composition of the Bank’s net outstanding rural advances:
1. Includes term loans for farm equipment, self-help groups, loans to microfinance institutions for on-lending to individuals and
inventory funding.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, the rating wise categorisation of the Bank’s net outstanding advances
other than retail and rural advances:
AA- and above 35.3% 36.1%
A+, A, A- 33.7% 35.7%
A- and above 69.1% 71.8%
BBB+,BBB, BBB- 25.6% 24.5%
BB and below2 4.7% 2.9% Unrated 0.5% 0.8% Total 100.0% 100.0% Total net advances3 ` 2,818.36 ` 3,275.55
1. Based on internal ratings.
2. Includes net non-performing loans.
3. Includes business banking, SME, domestic, corporate and overseas loans.
137

--- Page 200 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
DIRECTED LENDING Banks will be computed based on the weightage assigned to the incremental priority sector credit in the identified RBI requires banks to lend to certain sectors of the districts. The necessary adjustments for weightage economy. Such directed lending comprises priority sector of districts and calculation of achievement would be
lending and export credit.
done by RBI on the basis data submitted by Banks on
Priority Sector Lending and Investment quarterly basis.
term bonds for financing infrastructure and affordable
lending achievement.
housing, subject to certain limits.
energy, export credit and others. Out of the overall target
to the agriculture sector was ` 1,226.50 billion (fiscal 2021:
of their ANBC to the agriculture sector. From fiscal 2022
of ANBC against the requirement of 18.0% of ANBC.
notified a target level of 12.73% of ANBC for this purpose constituting 12.7% (fiscal 2021: 12.2%) of ANBC against
for fiscal 2022. Priority sector lending achievement is the requirement of 12.7% of ANBC (fiscal 2021: 12.1%).
evaluated on a quarterly average basis from fiscal 2017. The above includes the impact of PSLCs purchased/sold
From fiscal 2022, the priority sector achievements of the during fiscal 2022 by the Bank.
138

--- Page 201 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS projects, a loan is classified as non-performing if it fails to commence commercial operations within two years The Bank classify its assets as performing and non- from the documented date of commencement and performing in accordance with the RBI guidelines. Under for non-infrastructure projects, the loan is classified the RBI guidelines, an asset is generally classified as non- as non-performing if it fails to commence operations performing if any amount of interest or principal remains within 12 months from the documented date of overdue for more than 90 days, in respect of term loans. In
such commencement.
a project funded by us within stipulated timelines and
classification as standard, subject to specified conditions.
but which are standard as per the RBI guidelines, the and personal loans, while classifying such exposures as
amount outstanding in the host country is classified as standard, subject to specified conditions.
non-performing.
date of completion of the project as originally envisaged moratorium granted to the borrowers is not accounted as
at the time of financial closure. For infrastructure restructuring of loan.
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, information regarding asset classification of the Bank’s gross non-
performing assets (net of write-offs, interest suspense and derivative income reversals).
Total non-performing assets1 ` 413.73 ` 339.20
1. Include advances, lease receivables and credit substitutes like debentures and bonds. Excludes preference shares.
2. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
139

--- Page 202 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The following table sets forth, at the dates indicated, information regarding the Bank’s non-performing assets (NPAs).
March 31, 2022 ` 339.20 ` 69.61 ` 9,160.87 0.76%
1. Net of write-offs, interest suspense and derivatives income reversal.
2. Include advances, lease receivables and credit substitutes like debentures and bonds. Excludes preference shares.
3. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the composition of gross non-performing assets (net of write-
offs) by industry sector.
1. I ncludes home loans, automobile loans, commercial business loans, dealer financing, personal loans, credit cards and loans against
securities.
2. O ther industries primarily include textile, metal and metal products, manufacturing products, services-finance, cement, gems and
jewellery, drugs and pharmaceuticals, FMCG, automobiles and developer financing.
3. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
140

--- Page 203 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
In fiscal 2021, the Indian economy was impacted by at March 31, 2021 to ` 82.67 billion at March 31, 2022.
services output across small and large businesses. The have been restructured increased from ` 31.79 billion
nation-wide lock down in April-May 2020 substantially at March 31, 2021 to ` 79.84 billion at March 31, 2022.
in economic activity and progress towards normalcy. outstanding to borrowers whose loans were restructured
For the banking sector, these developments resulted was ` 5.65 billion at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021:
in regulatory measures like moratorium on payment of ` 4.38 billion).
of localised/regional lock-down measures in various
` 23.89 billion.
specified business segments and their definitions, for the
to NPAs.
purposes of public disclosures on business information
The gross additions to NPAs were ` 161.23 billion in fiscal for banks in India.
assets amounting to ` 163.63 billion, wrote-off non-
presented as follows:
from ` 413.73 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 339.20 billion portfolio’ as stipulated by RBI guidelines on the Basel
at March 31, 2022. III framework.
to net customer assets decreased from 1.14% at March 31, by the Bank which are not included in the Retail
2021 to 0.76% at March 31, 2022. Banking segment, as per RBI guidelines for the Bank.
At March 31, 2022, gross non-performing loans in the retail • Treasury includes the entire investment portfolio of
portfolio were 1.76% of gross retail loans compared to the Bank.
to 1.33% at March 31, 2021. The provision coverage ratio
segment of the Bank.
The total non-fund based outstanding to borrowers
provisions to the extent reckoned at entity level.
which pools all funds and lends to the business units
based outstanding.
The gross outstanding loans to borrowers whose facilities assets being funded after adjusting for regulatory reserve
have been restructured increased from ` 32.69 billion requirement and directed lending requirements.
141

--- Page 204 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Retail banking segment Provisions decreased by 38.1% from ` 44.99 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 27.86 billion in fiscal 2022. This decline The profit before tax of the segment increased by 47.3%
was primarily due to higher upgrades and recoveries.
billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 259.12 billion in fiscal 2022
in part, by an increase in net interest income.
primarily due to growth in the average loan portfolio.
borrowing and investment activity by customers and ` 14.58 billion in fiscal 2021. In fiscal 2021, the gain was
lower consumer spends because of the pandemic.
higher primarily due to a decrease in yield on government
Non-interest expenses increased by 21.0% from ` 160.85 securities resulting in higher opportunities for gains.
primarily due to an increase in premium paid towards
advertisement and sales promotion expenses.
purchase of priority sector lending certificates.
The provisions (net of write-back) decreased from There was a provision of ` 3.79 billion in fiscal 2022 as
` 69.65 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 54.74 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to a write-back of ` 1.48 billion in fiscal 2021.
Profit before tax of the other banking segment increased
Resolution Framework.
from ` 2.93 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 3.11 billion in fiscal
2022 primarily due to a decrease in provisions.
provision of ` 47.50 billion in fiscal 2021) and has made
part, by an increase in operating expenditures.
billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 126.16 billion in fiscal 2022 including Covid-19 related provision was not allocated to
primarily due to a growth in average loan portfolio. any segment and included in unallocated.
billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 251.10 billion in fiscal 2022
derivatives products.
due to an increase in employee expenses and technology profit of ICICI Life, ICICI Securities Primary Dealership and
related expenses. ICICI General.
142

--- Page 205 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The consolidated assets of the Bank and its subsidiaries ICICI PRUDENTIAL LIFE INSURANCE and other consolidating entities increased from COMPANY (ICICI LIFE) ` 15,738.12 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 17,526.37 billion The Annualised Premium Equivalent of ICICI Life increased at March 31, 2022. Consolidated advances increased from by 19.7% from ` 64.62 billion for fiscal 2021 to ` 77.33 ` 7,918.01 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 9,203.08 billion at billion for fiscal 2022. The Value of New Business (VNB)
March 31, 2022.
Limited (ICICI General) and Bharti AXA General Insurance total premium earned increased by 4.8% from ` 357.33
Company Limited (Bharti AXA), as approved by Insurance billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 374.58 billion in fiscal 2022.
September 3, 2021, assets and liabilities of Bharti AXA’s ` 2,142.18 billion at March 31, 2021 to ` 2,404.92 billion at
general insurance business vested with ICICI General March 31, 2022.
its investment in ICICI General as an associate under
incurred including Covid-19 related claims.
adequacy ratio was 18.02% as against the requirement of decreased from ` 6.47 billion in fiscal 2021 to ` 3.30 billion
9.70% and consolidated total capital adequacy ratio was in fiscal 2022 primarily due to lower trading gains.
18.87% as against the requirement of 11.70%.
ICICI BANK CANADA
ICICI PRUDENTIAL ASSET MANAGEMENT
The core operating profit of ICICI Bank Canada increased
COMPANY (ICICI PRUDENTIAL AMC)
from CAD 21.3 million in fiscal 2021 to CAD 26.2 million As per Indian GAAP, the profit after tax of ICICI Prudential in fiscal 2022 primarily due to a decrease in operating AMC increased from ` 11.79 billion in fiscal 2021 to expenses and increase in fee income. The profit after tax ` 14.36 billion in fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase of ICICI Bank Canada increased from CAD 20.0 million in fee income, offset, in part, by an increase in operating (` 1.13 billion) in fiscal 2021 to CAD 29.2 million (` 1.74 expenses. billion) in fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in core
operating profit.
ICICI SECURITIES
The total assets decreased from CAD 5.96 billion at As per Indian GAAP, the consolidated profit after tax of
March 31, 2021 to CAD 5.74 billion at March 31, 2022.
net impairment ratio decreased from 0.02% at March 31,
increase in operating expenses.
total capital adequacy ratio of 17.2% at March 31, 2022 as
ICICI LOMBARD GENERAL INSURANCE
compared to 24.1% at March 31, 2021. During fiscal 2022,
COMPANY (ICICI GENERAL)
ICICI Bank Canada had repatriated equity share capital of
The Gross Domestic Premium Income of ICICI General CAD 220.0 million to the Bank.
As per Indian GAAP, profit after tax increased from
billion in fiscal 2022.
143

--- Page 206 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
in part, by an increase in provisions. The core operating Total assets decreased from USD 2.96 billion at March 31, profit increased primarily due to an increase in net interest 2021 to USD 2.24 billion at March 31, 2022. Net advances income and fee income, offset, in part, by an increase in decreased from USD 1.57 billion at March 31, 2021 to operating expenses. USD 1.32 billion at March 31, 2022. The net impairment ratio decreased from 2.2% at March 31, 2021 to 2.0% at Net NPAs decreased from ` 5.59 billion at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2022. ICICI Bank UK had a total capital adequacy
to ` 5.16 billion at March 31, 2022.
The core operating profit of ICICI Bank UK decreased from
the Bank.
2022 primarily due to a decrease in net interest income
ICICI VENTURE FUNDS MANAGEMENT
and increase in operating expenses, offset, in part, by an
COMPANY (ICICI VENTURE)
increase in other income. Profit after tax of ICICI Bank UK decreased from USD 14.8 million (` 1.10 billion) in fiscal The profit after tax of ICICI Venture decreased from 2021 to USD 10.9 million (` 0.81 billion) in fiscal 2022 ` 40.1 million in fiscal 2021 to ` 2.2 million in fiscal 2022 primarily due to lower core operating profit, offset, in part, primarily due to lower income from venture capital funds,
by a decrease in impairment provisions. offset, in part, by lower administrative expenses.
The following table sets forth, for the periods and at the dates indicated, the profit/(loss) and total assets of our principal
subsidiaries/associates as per Indian GAAP.
ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited ` 0.04 ` 0.00 ` 2.91 ` 2.84
1. 0 .00 represents insignificant amount.
2. T otal assets are as per classification used in the consolidated financial statements and hence the total assets as per subsidiary’s
financial statements may differ.
3. E ffective April 1, 2021, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited has been accounted as an associate under Accounting
Standard – 23 – “Accounting for Investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements”.
4. Represents total assets as per financial statements of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited.
5. See also “Financials- Statement pursuant to Section 129 of the Companies Act, 2013”.
6. All amounts have been rounded off to the nearest ` 10.0 million.
144

--- Page 207 ---
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
)segatnecrep dna atad erahs rep tpecxe ,noillib ni `( 2202 1202 0202 9102 8102 7102 6102 5102 4102 3102 27.546,01 22.523,9 96.907,7 02.925,6 57.906,5 93.009,4 62.412,4 36.516,3 41.913,3 41.629,2 stisoped latoT 02.095,8 92.733,7 09.254,6 74.668,5 59.321,5 23.246,4 46.253,4 22.578,3 30.783,3 94.209,2 secnavda latoT 21.507,1 90.574,1 40.561,1 86.380,1 95.150,1 15.999 63.798 92.408 31.237 60.766 sevreser & latipac ytiuqE 89.211,41 33.403,21 56.389,01 95.446,9 98.197,8 19.717,7 59.602,7 92.164,6 24.649,5 59.763,5 stessa latoT 2%2.91 2%1.91 2%1.61 2%9.61 2%4.81 2%4.71 2%6.61 2%0.71 2%7.71 1%7.81 oitar ycauqeda latipac latoT 74.383 15.313 80.862 27.022 93.981 01.971 30.891 72.081 77.551 40.721 tiforp gnitarepo eroC 66.474 98.983 76.233 51.072 62.032 73.712 42.212 04.091 57.461 66.831 emocni tseretni teN %69.3 %96.3 %37.3 %24.3 %32.3 %52.3 %94.3 %84.3 %33.3 %11.3 nigram tseretni teN 93.332 39.161 13.97 36.33 77.76 10.89 62.79 57.111 01.89 52.38 xat retfa tiforP 66.33 10.42 82.21 32.5 65.01 13.51 32.51 65.71 54.51 31.31 4,3)cisaB( erahs rep sgninraE 89.23 76.32 80.21 71.5 64.01 52.51 41.51 93.71 93.51 80.31 4,3)detuliD( erahs rep sgninraE %8.41 %2.21 %1.7 %2.3 %6.6 %3.01 %3.11 %3.41 %7.31 %9.21 ytiuqe egareva no nruteR 00.5 00.2 - 00.1 05.1 05.2 00.5 00.5 06.4 00.4 5,3erahs rep dnediviD .krowemarf
II
lesaB rep sa detaluclac neeb sah oitar ycauqeda latipac latoT .1 .krowemarf
III
lesaB rep sa detaluclac neeb sah oitar ycauqeda latipac latoT .2 ecaf a gnivah serahs ytiuqe evif otni 01 ` fo erahs ytiuqe eno fo noisivid-bus eht devorppa knaB eht fo sredloherahs eht ,5102 ,13 hcraM dedne raey eht gniruD .3 .noisivid-bus fo tceffe eht stcelfer osla sdoirep roirp fo noitamrofni erahs reP .hcae 2 ` fo eulav ylluf )neT( 01 yreve rof hcae 2 ` fo erahs ytiuqe sunob )enO( 1 .e.i ,01:1 fo noitroporp eht ni serahs sunob deussi knaB eht ,8102 ,13 hcraM dedne raey eht gniruD .4 .eussi sunob fo tceffe eht stcelfer osla sdoirep roirp fo noitamrofni erahs reP
.)SDA
gniylrednu serahs gnidulcni( dleh serahs ytiuqe pu-diap ytiuqe no tnemyap dnedivid yna ekam ton llahs sknab taht detcerid dah ,0202 ,71 lirpA detad ’)desiveR( sknab yb sdnedivid fo noitaralceD‘ ralucric sti hguorht
IBR
.5
.0202YF
rof dnedivid yna yap ton did knaB eht ,ylgnidroccA .0202 ,13 hcraM dedne raey laicnanif eht ot gniniatrep stiforp eht morf serahs Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS: LAST 10 YEARS
145

--- Page 208 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of ICICI Bank Limited Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements Opinion We have audited the accompanying standalone financial statements of ICICI Bank Limited (“the Bank”), which comprise the Standalone Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2022 and the Standalone Profit and Loss account, and Standalone Cash Flow Statement for the year then ended, and notes to the standalone financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (“the standalone financial statements”).
generally accepted in India and give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Bank as at 31 March 2022, and its
profit, and its cash flows for the year ended on that date.
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
audit of the standalone financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
1) Identification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA):
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(3) and Schedule 18(17))
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines on Income Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
to have Board approved policy as per IRAC guidelines for
provision for NPA and valuation of security and collateral.
NPA identification and provision.
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing and provision carried by the Bank and verified the underlying
classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature of loan assumptions used by the Bank for such estimate.
is subject to the minimum provisioning norms specified
automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
by RBI and approved policy of the Bank in this regard.
146

--- Page 209 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter The Bank is also required to apply its judgement to Evaluated the governance process and review controls determine the identification and provision required over calculations of provision of non-performing against NPAs by applying quantitative as well as advances, basis of provisioning in accordance with the
qualitative factors. The risk of identification of NPAs is Board approved policy.
Selected the borrowers based on quantitative and
certain sectors.
are not classified as NPA including advances to certain ageing to assess its correct classification and provision
sectors and identified advances or group advances. amount as per extant IRAC norms and the Bank policy.
These are classified as contingency provisions.
Performed other substantive procedures included and
Since the identification of NPAs and provisioning for not limited to the following:
observation by RBI which could result into disclosure in the
as NPA;
in RBI’s Central Repository of Information on Large
Credits (CRILC) to identify stress.
accounts that can potentially be classified as NPA and
Red flagged accounts.
particular loan account or any product category which
needed to be considered as NPA.
 Examined the early warning reports generated by the
Bank to identify stressed loan accounts.
and the steps taken to mitigate the risks to identified
sectors.
relevant accounting standards and RBI requirements
relating to NPAs.
147

--- Page 210 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
2) Evaluation of Litigations included in contingent liabilities.
(Refer Schedule 12 I Schedule 17(12) and Schedule 18(36))
The Bank has material open tax litigations including Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the
to determine the possible outcome of these disputes.
Bank’s key controls over the estimation, monitoring and
Significant management judgement is needed in disclosure of provisions and contingent liabilities.
a provision should be recognised as at the reporting
limited to the following:
needs to be disclosed as a contingent liability. Further, contingent liabilities pertaining to legal and taxation
significant judgements are also involved in measuring matters;
such obligations, the most significant of which are:
 Obtained a list of cases /matters in respect of which
 Assessment of Liability: Judgement is involved the litigations were outstanding as at reporting date:
external confirmations and corroborated with
estimated reliably.
 Adequacy of provisions: The appropriateness of assessment of outstanding litigations against the
assumption and judgements used in estimation of Bank;
matter, their own judgement, experience, and advises
relevant appellate authorities.
Since the assessment of these open litigations requires
therein and available independent legal / tax advice;
 Assessed the disclosures within the standalone
financial statements in this regard.
148

--- Page 211 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter
3) Information Technology (‘IT’) systems and controls impacting financial controls.
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
IT dependent manual controls, we involved IT specialists
multiple applications.
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key accuracy of the information produced by the Bank’s IT
role in the business operations of the Bank. Since systems.
process understanding, mapping of applications to the
in an appropriate manner.
same and understanding financial risks posed by people-
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls process and technology.
operating effectiveness of key controls operating over
and consistently for reliable financial reporting.
and procedure and Business continuity plan assessment due
impact of COVID-19 was also part of our audit procedure.
observation, and re-performance. We also tested few
controls using negative testing technique.
where relevant, changes made to the IT landscape during
the audit period.
149

--- Page 212 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the Key Audit Matter Valuation of Derivatives (Included under contingent liabilities) (in ‘000) As at As at Particulars 31 March 2022 31 March 2021 Notional amounts 37,056,016,613 25,062,638,040 (Refer Schedule 12.III, 12.V, 12.VII and 18(14)) Derivatives are valued through models with external Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to,
inputs. The derivatives portfolio of the Bank primarily the following:
and transactions to hedge the Bank’s interest and foreign
over the valuation processes, including:
currency risk.
in the application of valuation techniques through which
validation.
financial statements, significant management estimates
inputs used.
such estimates and judgements, we have identified this
as a key audit matter for current year audit.
which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and Annual Report, which is expected to be made available
to us after that date.
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not and will not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have
nothing to report in this regard.
communicate the matter to those charged with governance under SA 720 ‘The Auditor’s responsibilities Relating to
Other Information’.
150

--- Page 213 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Standalone Financial Statements The Bank’s Board of Directors is responsible for the matters stated in section 134(5) of the Act with respect to the preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the Bank in accordance with the accounting principles generally accepted in India, including the Accounting Standards specified under section 133 of the Act, and provisions of Section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the circulars and guidelines issued by the RBI from time to time (the “RBI Guidelines”). This responsibility also includes maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines for safeguarding of the assets of the Bank and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the standalone financial statement that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.
basis of accounting unless the management either intends to liquidate the Bank or to cease operations, or has no realistic
alternative but to do so.
The Board of Directors are also responsible for overseeing the Bank’s financial reporting process.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the standalone financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these standalone financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
our opinion on whether the Bank has adequate internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial
statements in place and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by management.
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Bank
to cease to continue as a going concern.
151

--- Page 214 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the standalone financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the standalone financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a
manner that achieves fair presentation.
of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during
our audit.
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be
thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh
the public interest benefits of such communication.
The standalone financial statements of the Bank for the year ended 31 March 2021, were audited by another auditor
whose report dated 24 April 2021 expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements.
Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
1. The Balance Sheet and the Profit and Loss account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions of Section
29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and Section 133 of the Act and relevant rules issued thereunder.
2. As required by sub-section (3) of section 30 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949, we report that:
a. we have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which, to the best of our knowledge and
belief, were necessary for the purpose of our audit and have found them to be satisfactory;
b. the transactions of the Bank, which have come to our notice during the course of our audit, have been within
the powers of the Bank;
system, the audit is carried out centrally as all the necessary records and data required for the purposes of our
audit are available therein. However, during the course of our audit we visited 130 branches.
3. As required by Section 143(3) of the Act, we report that:
a. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit;
b. In our opinion, proper books of account as required by law have been kept by the Bank so far as it appears from
our examination of those books;
c. The Balance Sheet, the Statement of Profit and Loss and the Statement of Cash Flow dealt with by this Report
are in agreement with the books of account;
under Section 133 of the Act, and relevant rules thereunder, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the
guidelines prescribed by RBI;
by the Board of Directors, none of the directors are disqualified as on 31 March 2022 from being appointed as
a director in terms of Section 164 (2) of the Act;
152

--- Page 215 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) f. With respect to the adequacy of the internal financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements of the Bank and the operating effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure A”; and g. With respect to the other matters to be included in the Auditor’s Report in accordance with Rule 11 of the Companies (Audit and Auditors) Rules, 2014, in our opinion and to the best of our information and according to
the explanations given to us:
i. The Bank has disclosed the impact of pending litigations on its financial position in its standalone financial
statements (Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(12) and Schedule 18(41));
foreseeable losses, if any, on long-term contracts including derivative contracts (Refer Schedule 17(12)
and Schedule 18(41));
iii. There has been no delay in transferring amounts, required to be transferred, to the Investor Education and
Protection Fund by the Bank;
in any manner whatsoever by or on behalf of the Bank (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries;
in this regard, nothing has come to our notice that has caused us to believe that the representations
made by the Management under sub-clause (1) and (2) contain any material misstatement.
v. The Bank has declared and paid dividend during the year which is in compliance with section 123 of the
Act and the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
Section 197(16) of the Act, as amended, the Bank is a banking Company as defined under Banking Regulation
Act, 1949. Accordingly, the requirements prescribed under Section 197 of the Act do not apply.
Membership No.: 118580 Membership No.: 117348
UDIN: 22118580AHQWVC2236 UDIN: 22117348AHQYOK9213
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai Date: 23 April 2022 Date: 23 April 2022 153

--- Page 216 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
ANNEXURE A
to the Independent Auditors’ report on the Standalone Financial Statements of ICICI Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Referred to in paragraph “3(f)” under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Standalone Financial Statements under
Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013.
Limited (‘the Bank) as at 31 March 2022 in conjunction with our audit of the standalone financial statements of the
Bank for the year ended on that date.
components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note on Audit of Internal Financial Controls Over Financial
Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the Guidance Note”).
prevention and detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the
timely preparation of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
assurance about whether adequate internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements
were established and maintained and whether such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of
material misstatement of the standalone financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
6. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit
opinion on the Bank’s internal financial controls with reference to the standalone financial statements.
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of standalone
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
154

--- Page 217 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements ANNEXURE A (Contd.) are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of standalone financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Bank are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the Bank; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the Bank assets that could have a
material effect on the standalone financial statements.
controls with reference to the standalone financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Membership No.: 118580 Membership No.: 117348
UDIN: 22118580AHQWVC2236 UDIN: 22117348AHQYOK9213
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai Date: 23 April 2022 Date: 23 April 2022 155

--- Page 218 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
BALANCE SHEET
at March 31, 2022 ` in ‘000s At At Schedule 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 13,899,662 13,834,104 Employees stock options outstanding 2,664,141 31,010 Reserves and surplus 2 1,688,555,941 1,461,226,736 Deposits 3 10,645,716,132 9,325,221,605 Borrowings 4 1,072,313,597 916,309,564 Other liabilities and provisions 5 689,827,947 587,703,739 TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES 14,112,977,420 12,304,326,758
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 601,208,198 460,311,902 Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 1,077,015,434 870,970,599 Investments 8 3,102,410,024 2,812,865,399 Advances 9 8,590,204,390 7,337,290,904 Fixed assets 10 93,738,159 88,775,806 Other assets 11 648,401,215 734,112,148
TOTAL ASSETS 14,112,977,420 12,304,326,758
Contingent liabilities 12 38,676,758,717 26,486,406,690 Bills for collection 751,508,328 546,434,215 Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Balance Sheet.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 156

--- Page 219 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the year ended March 31, 2022 ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended Schedule 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
I. INCOME
Interest earned 13 863,745,452 791,182,710 Other income 14 185,175,299 189,685,274
TOTAL INCOME 1,048,920,751 980,867,984
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 389,084,507 401,288,374 Operating expenses 16 267,333,160 215,608,340 Provisions and contingencies (refer note 18.41) 159,108,177 202,044,429
TOTAL EXPENDITURE 815,525,844 818,941,143
III. PROFIT/(LOSS)
Net profit/(loss) for the year 233,394,907 161,926,841 Profit brought forward 310,090,657 213,274,679
TOTAL PROFIT/(LOSS) 543,485,564 375,201,520
IV. APPROPRIATIONS/TRANSFERS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 58,349,000 40,482,000 Transfer to/(from) Reserve Fund - (77,638) Transfer to Capital Reserve 15,742,037 1,302,300 Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve - - Transfer to/(from) Investment Reserve Account - - Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve 3,828,798 (2,495,799) Transfer to Revenue and other reserves - 15,000,000 Transfer to Special Reserve 15,000,000 10,900,000 Dividend paid during the year 13,852,335 - Balance carried over to balance sheet 436,713,394 310,090,657
TOTAL 543,485,564 375,201,520
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18 Earnings per share (refer note 18.1) Basic (`) 33.66 24.01 Diluted (`) 32.98 23.67 Face value per share (`) 2.00 2.00
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Standalone Profit and Loss Account.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 157

--- Page 220 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2022 ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities Profit/(loss) before taxes 306,088,853 201,827,176
Adjustments for:
(i) 405,297,213 343,107,330
Adjustments for:
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
(A) + (B) + (C) + (D) 346,941,131 139,725,112
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,331,282,501 1,191,557,389 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,678,223,632 1,331,282,501 1. F or the year ended March 31, 2021, includes gain on sale of a part of equity investment in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited.
2. Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and short notice.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 158

--- Page 221 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Balance Sheet ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised capital 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2021: 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each) 25,000,000 25,000,000 Equity share capital Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital 6,915,992,387 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2021: 6,472,765,203 equity shares) 13,831,985 12,945,530 Add: 32,778,988 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2021: 443,227,184 equity shares) issued during the year1 65,558 886,455 13,897,543 13,831,985 Add: Forfeited equity shares2 2,119 2,119
TOTAL CAPITAL 13,899,662 13,834,104
1. R epresents equity shares issued pursuant to exercise of employee stock options. (March 31, 2021: 418,994,413 equity shares issued
under Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP) and 24,232,771 equity shares issued pursuant to exercise of employee stock options).
2. On account of forfeiture of 266,089 equity shares of ` 10 each.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I. Statutory reserve Opening balance 297,687,519 257,205,519 Additions during the year 58,349,000 40,482,000 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 356,036,519 297,687,519 II. Special reserve Opening balance 113,840,000 102,940,000 Additions during the year 15,000,000 10,900,000 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 128,840,000 113,840,000 III. Securities premium Opening balance 488,330,632 334,612,918 Additions during the year1 7,923,265 154,419,403 Deductions during the year2 - (701,689) Closing balance 496,253,897 488,330,632 IV. Investment reserve account Opening balance - - Additions during the year - - Deductions during the year - - Closing balance - - V. Investment fluctuation reserve3 Opening balance 16,886,201 19,382,000 Additions during the year 3,828,798 - Deductions during the year - (2,495,799) Closing balance 20,714,999 16,886,201 159

--- Page 222 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 VI. Capital reserve Opening balance 133,798,425 132,496,125 Additions during the year4,5 15,742,037 1,302,300 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 149,540,462 133,798,425 VII. Capital redemption reserve Opening balance 3,500,000 3,500,000 Additions during the year - - Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 3,500,000 3,500,000 VIII. Foreign currency translation reserve Opening balance 9,586,959 16,528,210 Additions during the year - - Deductions during the year (1,853,998) (6,941,251) Closing balance 7,732,961 9,586,959 IX. Revaluation reserve Opening balance 30,935,908 31,148,705 Additions during the year6 1,724,938 461,869 Deductions during the year7 (704,253) (674,666) Closing balance 31,956,593 30,935,908 X. Reserve fund Opening balance - 77,638 Additions during the year7 - - Deductions during the year7 - (77,638) Closing balance - - XI. Revenue and other reserves Opening balance 56,570,435 40,895,769 Additions during the year 696,681 15,674,666 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 57,267,116 56,570,435 XII. Balance in profit and loss account5,8 436,713,394 310,090,657 TOTAL RESERVES AND SURPLUS 1,688,555,941 1,461,226,736 1. Includes amount on account of exercise of employee stock options. At March 31, 2021, includes amount on account of equity shares
issued under QIP and exercise of employee stock options.
2. Represents amount utilised towards direct expenses relating to the issuance of equity shares under QIP.
for the period less mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of the HFT
and AFS portfolio.
4. Represents appropriations made for profit on sale of investments in held-to-maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory
Reserve and profit on sale of land and buildings, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory Reserve.
to Capital Reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15,091.1 million was transferred from Balance in Profit and Loss account to Capital
Reserve during FY2022.
6. Represents gain on revaluation of premises carried out by the Bank.
7. Includes amount transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve on account of incremental depreciation charge on
revaluation, revaluation surplus on premises sold or loss on revaluation on account of certain assets which were held for sale.
8. At March 31, 2021, balance in Reserve Fund created by Sri Lanka Branch was transferred to Balance in Profit and Loss Account due
to its closure.
160

--- Page 223 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
A. I. Demand deposits i) From banks 79,700,410 114,792,811 ii) From others 1,505,096,359 1,246,908,460 II. Savings bank deposits 3,599,568,969 2,954,533,008 III. Term deposits i) From banks 71,532,495 96,198,935 ii) From others 5,389,817,899 4,912,788,391
TOTAL DEPOSITS 10,645,716,132 9,325,221,605
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 10,547,609,016 9,248,880,616 II. Deposits of branches outside India 98,107,116 76,340,989
TOTAL DEPOSITS 10,645,716,132 9,325,221,605
` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I. Borrowings in India i) Reserve Bank of India1 - 1,000,000 ii) Other banks - 6,999 iii) Other institutions and agencies a) Government of India - - b) Financial institutions2 187,168,771 216,069,065 iv) Borrowings in the form of bonds and debentures (excluding subordinated debt) 391,495,007 197,867,850 v) Application money-bonds - - vi) Capital instruments a) Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI) (qualifying as additional Tier 1 capital) 66,950,000 101,200,000 b) Hybrid debt capital instruments issued as bonds/debentures (qualifying as Tier 2 capital) - - c) Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds (subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital) 71,556,981 71,258,998
TOTAL BORROWINGS IN INDIA 717,170,759 587,402,912
II. Borrowings outside India i) Capital instruments - - ii) Bonds and notes 170,411,911 171,698,692 iii) Other borrowings 184,730,927 157,207,960 TOTAL BORROWINGS OUTSIDE INDIA 355,142,838 328,906,652
TOTAL BORROWINGS 1,072,313,597 916,309,564
1. Represents borrowings made under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF).
2. Includes borrowings made under repo and refinance.
3. S ecured borrowings in I and II above amount to Nil (March 31, 2021: Nil) except borrowings of ` 4,913.3 million (March 31, 2021:
` 4,999.1 million) under market repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) with banks and financial institutions and transactions
under liquidity adjustment facility and marginal standing facility.
161

--- Page 224 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I. Bills payable 129,495,726 123,870,614 II. Inter-office adjustments (net) 4,418,106 3,262,618 III. Interest accrued 24,632,882 21,389,174 IV. Sundry creditors 144,731,299 121,848,376 V. General provision for standard assets (refer note 18.19) 40,942,883 36,342,824 VI. Others (including provisions)1,2 345,607,051 280,990,133 TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS 689,827,947 587,703,739 1. I ncludes contingency provision amounting to ` 74,500.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 74,750.0 million), including Covid-19 related
provision of ` 64,250.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 74,750.0 million).
2. Includes specific provision for standard loans amounting to ` 30,203.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 7,791.5 million).
SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT
NOTICE
I. In India i) Balances with banks a) In current accounts 324,146 526,416 b) In other deposit accounts 5,321,404 15,224 ii) Money at call and short notice a) With banks1 494,020,000 352,190,000 b) With other institutions2 - 145,670
TOTAL 499,665,550 352,877,310
II. Outside India i) In current accounts 302,607,893 263,159,331 ii) In other deposit accounts 179,630,804 198,990,362 iii) Money at call and short notice 95,111,187 55,943,596
TOTAL 577,349,884 518,093,289
TOTAL BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE 1,077,015,434 870,970,599
1. Includes lending under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF).
2. Includes lending under reverse repo.
162

--- Page 225 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
I. Investments in India [net of provisions] i) Government securities 2,563,877,338 2,136,207,918 ii) Other approved securities - - iii) Shares (includes equity and preference shares) 24,135,943 28,220,174 iv) Debentures and bonds (including commercial paper and certificate of deposits) 225,803,491 270,018,106 v) Subsidiaries and/or joint ventures1 66,264,177 60,738,869 vi) Others (mutual fund units, pass through certificates, security receipts, and other related investments) 71,922,592 111,822,514 TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN INDIA 2,952,003,541 2,607,007,581 II. Investments outside India [net of provisions] i) Government securities 107,340,857 151,622,342 ii) Subsidiaries and/or joint ventures abroad (includes equity and preference shares) 19,698,901 36,826,862 iii) Others (equity shares, bonds and certificate of deposits) 23,366,725 17,408,614 TOTAL INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE INDIA 150,406,483 205,857,818
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 3,102,410,024 2,812,865,399
A. Investments in India Gross value of investments 3,002,256,404 2,655,692,360 Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 50,252,863 48,684,779 Net investments 2,952,003,541 2,607,007,581 B. Investments outside India Gross value of investments 151,569,301 206,964,172 Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 1,162,818 1,106,354 Net investments 150,406,483 205,857,818
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 3,102,410,024 2,812,865,399
1. D uring the year ended March 31, 2021, the Bank sold a part of its equity investment in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited.
163

--- Page 226 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 SCHEDULE 9 - ADVANCES [net of provisions] A. i) Bills purchased and discounted1 475,480,187 335,109,843 ii) Cash credits, overdrafts and loans repayable on demand 2,279,069,891 1,846,093,909 iii) Term loans 5,835,654,312 5,156,087,152
TOTAL ADVANCES 8,590,204,390 7,337,290,904
B. i) Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against book debts)2 6,136,277,576 5,302,794,936 ii) Covered by bank/government guarantees 178,653,112 106,820,866 iii) Unsecured 2,275,273,702 1,927,675,102
TOTAL ADVANCES 8,590,204,390 7,337,290,904
C. I. Advances in India i) Priority sector 2,491,680,887 2,031,797,475 ii) Public sector 483,782,406 451,897,529 iii) Banks 432,346 264,743 iv) Others 5,201,460,769 4,477,427,682 TOTAL ADVANCES IN INDIA 8,177,356,408 6,961,387,429 II. Advances outside India i) Due from banks - 2,773,789 ii) Due from others a) Bills purchased and discounted 173,178,388 78,351,968 b) Syndicated and term loans 85,793,092 168,266,427 c) Others 153,876,502 126,511,291 TOTAL ADVANCES OUTSIDE INDIA 412,847,982 375,903,475
TOTAL ADVANCES 8,590,204,390 7,337,290,904
1. Net of bills re-discounted amounting to Nil (March 31, 2021: Nil).
2. Includes advances against book debts amounting to ` 666,112.1 million (March 31, 2021: ` 588,321.5 million).
164

--- Page 227 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I. Premises Gross block At cost at March 31 of preceding year 78,890,743 77,468,304 Additions during the year1 2,993,921 1,656,933 Deductions during the year (397,723) (234,494) Closing balance 81,486,941 78,890,743 Depreciation At March 31 of preceding year 18,421,307 16,668,165 Charge during the year2 2,038,226 1,974,520 Deductions during the year (279,524) (221,378) Total depreciation 20,180,009 18,421,307 Net block 61,306,932 60,469,436 II. Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures) Gross block At cost at March 31 of preceding year 78,861,437 68,735,008 Additions during the year 13,724,162 13,185,789 Deductions during the year (3,813,161) (3,059,360) Closing balance 88,772,438 78,861,437 Depreciation At March 31 of preceding year 53,842,117 48,172,061 Charge during the year 9,484,874 8,609,517 Deductions during the year (3,731,120) (2,939,461) Total depreciation 59,595,871 53,842,117 Net block 29,176,567 25,019,320 III. Lease assets Gross block At cost at March 31 of preceding year 17,735,222 17,054,049 Additions during the year 155,524 681,173 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance3 17,890,746 17,735,222 Depreciation At March 31 of preceding year 14,448,172 14,314,282 Charge during the year 187,914 133,890 Deductions during the year - - Total depreciation, accumulated lease adjustment and provisions 14,636,086 14,448,172 Net block 3,254,660 3,287,050
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 93,738,159 88,775,806
1. I ncludes revaluation gain amounting to ` 1,724.9 million (March 31, 2021: ` 461.9 million) on account of revaluation carried out by
the Bank.
2. I ncludes depreciation charge on account of revaluation amounting to ` 696.7 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended
March 31, 2021: ` 674.7 million).
3. Includes assets taken on lease amounting to ` 1,176.1 million (March 31, 2021: ` 1,020.6 million).
165

--- Page 228 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Standalone Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
I. Inter-office adjustments (net) - - II. Interest accrued 88,248,164 86,278,179 III. Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) 21,463,118 46,381,798 IV. Stationery and stamps 3,451 4,665 V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1,2 - - VI. Advances for capital assets 3,680,645 2,907,943 VII. Deposits 35,163,419 24,025,670 VIII. Deferred tax assets (net) (refer note 18.43) 77,732,740 87,444,731 IX. Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund 264,194,161 311,777,207 X. Others 157,915,517 175,291,955
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS 648,401,215 734,112,148
1. D uring the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has not acquired any assets (year ended March 31, 2021: Nil) in satisfaction of claims under debt-asset swap transactions. Assets amounting to ` 563.6 million were sold during the year ended March 31, 2022
(year ended March 31, 2021: ` 942.4 million).
2. Net of provision amounting to ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2021: ` 29,575.4 million).
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
I. Claims against the Bank not acknowledged as debts 82,838,729 73,768,089 II. Liability for partly paid investments 12,455 12,455 III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1 10,645,244,026 8,152,789,862 IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents a) In India 882,110,255 816,769,649 b) Outside India 155,637,359 178,245,678 V. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 462,814,238 324,236,366 VI. Currency swaps1 498,337,575 481,715,704 VII. Interest rate swaps, currency options and interest rate futures1 25,912,435,012 16,428,132,474 VIII. Other items for which the Bank is contingently liable 37,329,068 30,736,413 TOTAL CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 38,676,758,717 26,486,406,690
1. Represents notional amount.
166

--- Page 229 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Profit and Loss Account ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
I. Interest/discount on advances/bills 638,335,578 572,888,123 II. Income on investments 164,092,693 165,397,817 III. Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds 15,608,305 16,319,050 IV. Others1,2 45,708,876 36,577,720
TOTAL INTEREST EARNED 863,745,452 791,182,710
1. Includes interest on income tax refunds amounting to ` 2,434.2 million (March 31, 2021: ` 2,569.3 million).
2. Includes interest and amortisation of premium on non-trading interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 126,396,696 104,867,542 II. Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net)1 7,043,249 53,302,497 III. Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net) (17,653) (1,564,373) IV. Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)2 40,400 (27,974) V. Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net) 29,634,217 19,170,981 VI. Income earned by way of dividends, etc. from subsidiary companies and/or joint ventures abroad/in India 18,287,906 12,339,950 VII. Miscellaneous income (including lease income) 3,790,484 1,596,652
TOTAL OTHER INCOME 185,175,299 189,685,274
1. F or the year ended March 31, 2021, includes gain on sale of a part of equity investment in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited.
2. Includes profit/(loss) on sale of assets given on lease.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
I. Interest on deposits 333,001,545 332,563,139 II. Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings 909,329 6,762,168 III. Others (including interest on borrowings of erstwhile ICICI Limited) 55,173,633 61,963,067
TOTAL INTEREST EXPENDED 389,084,507 401,288,374
167

--- Page 230 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Profit and Loss Account (Contd.) ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
I. Payments to and provisions for employees1 96,727,472 80,917,790 II. Rent, taxes and lighting2 12,410,538 11,598,363 III. Printing and stationery 2,058,744 1,813,495 IV. Advertisement and publicity 10,073,452 6,172,743 V. Depreciation on Bank's property 11,523,100 10,584,038 VI. Depreciation (including lease equalisation) on leased assets 187,914 133,877 VII. Directors' fees, allowances and expenses 45,484 38,157 VIII. Auditors' fees and expenses 52,962 94,195 IX. Law charges 1,150,521 974,632 X. Postages, courier, telephones, etc. 5,725,178 4,253,640 XI. Repairs and maintenance 24,649,279 19,507,374 XII. Insurance 12,944,781 11,030,824 XIII. Direct marketing agency expenses 22,568,493 16,820,872 XIV. Other expenditure3 67,215,242 51,668,340
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 267,333,160 215,608,340
1. F or the year ended March 31, 2022, includes impact of ` 2,642.2 million due to change in accounting policy from intrinsic value
method to fair value method for all stock options granted after March 31, 2021 under the Bank’s Employee Stock Option Scheme.
2. Includes lease expense amounting to ` 9,860.8 million (March 31, 2021: ` 9,044.8 million).
3. I ncludes expenses on purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLC) amounting to ` 13,206.1 million (March 31, 2021:
` 7,813.8 million).
4. Net of recoveries from group companies towards shared services.
168

--- Page 231 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts
SCHEDULE 17
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview ICICI Bank Limited (ICICI Bank or the Bank), incorporated in Vadodara, India is a publicly held banking company engaged in providing a wide range of banking and financial services including commercial banking and treasury operations. ICICI Bank is a banking company governed by the Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Bank also has overseas branches in Bahrain,
China, Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore, South Africa, United States of America and Offshore Banking units.
of accounting, except in the case of interest and other income on non-performing assets (NPAs) where it is recognised
upon realisation.
preparation of the financial statements are prudent and reasonable. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The
impact of any revision in these estimates is recognised prospectively from the period of change.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Revenue recognition a) I nterest income is recognised in the profit and loss account as it accrues, including for cases where moratorium has been extended for payments of principal and/or interest as per RBI guideline dated March 27, 2020, except in the case of non-performing assets (NPAs) where it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition
and asset classification norms of RBI.
b) Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument on a constant yield basis.
c) Dividend income is accounted on accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
d) Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when it becomes due.
e) Project appraisal/structuring fee is accounted for on the completion of the agreed service.
f) A rranger fee is accounted for as income when a significant portion of the arrangement is completed and right to
receive is established.
g) C ommission received on guarantees and letters of credit issued is amortised on a straight-line basis over the
period of the guarantee/letters of credit.
h) T he annual/renewal fee on credit cards, debit cards and prepaid cards are amortised on a straight line basis over
one year.
i) F ees paid/received for priority sector lending certificates (PSLC) is amortised on straight-line basis over the period
of the certificate.
j) A ll other fees are accounted for as and when they become due where the Bank is reasonably certain of
ultimate collection.
169

--- Page 232 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 2. Investments
Investments are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation.
India and state government securities where settlement date method of accounting is followed in accordance with
RBI guidelines.
Classification:
categorised as (a) government securities, (b) other approved securities, (c) shares, (d) bonds and debentures, (e)
subsidiaries and joint ventures and (f) others.
Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified as HFT securities.
classified in either of the above categories are classified under AFS securities. Investments in the equity of subsidiaries/
joint ventures are classified under HTM or AFS categories.
Cost of acquisition:
interest (the amount of interest from the previous interest payment date till the date of purchase of instruments) on
debt instruments, are charged to the profit and loss account.
Valuation:
on securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is fully provided for. Non-performing investments are
identified based on the RBI guidelines.
HTM securities are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over the face value.
Any premium over the face value of fixed rate and floating rate securities acquired is amortised over the remaining
period to maturity on a constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively.
jointly with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association (FIMMDA)/Financial Benchmark India Private
Limited (FBIL), periodically.
The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
securities included in the ‘Available for Sale’ and ‘Held for Trading’ categories is as per the rates published by FBIL.
government securities published by FIMMDA. The sovereign foreign securities and non-INR India linked bonds are
valued on the basis of prices published by the sovereign regulator or counterparty quotes.
Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at carrying cost.
The units of mutual funds are valued at the latest repurchase price/net asset value declared by the mutual fund.
Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up value, if the latest balance sheet is available, or at `1, as per
RBI guidelines.
170

--- Page 233 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) cases where the cash flows from security receipts issued by the asset reconstruction companies are limited to the actual realisation of the financial assets assigned to the instruments in the concerned scheme, the Bank reckons the net asset value obtained from the asset reconstruction company from time to time, for valuation of such investments at each reporting period end. The Bank makes additional provisions on the security receipts based on the remaining period for the resolution period to end. The security receipts which are outstanding and not redeemed as at the end of
the resolution period are treated as loss assets and are fully provided for.
The Bank assesses investments in subsidiaries for any other than temporary diminution in value and appropriate
provisions are made.
Disposal:
on the First-In-First-Out (FIFO) method. The profit from sale of investment under HTM category, net of taxes and
transfer to statutory reserve is transferred to “Capital Reserve” in accordance with the RBI Guidelines.
Short sale:
The Bank undertakes short sale transactions in dated central government securities in accordance with RBI guidelines.
The short positions are categorised under HFT category and are marked to market. The mark-to-market loss is charged
to profit and loss account and gain, if any, is ignored as per RBI guidelines.
Repurchase transactions:
Market repurchase, reverse repurchase and transactions with RBI under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) are
accounted for as borrowing and lending transactions in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines.
3. Provision/write-offs on loans and other credit facilities
Classification:
performing advances is transferred to an interest suspense account and not recognised in profit and loss account until
received.
granted to the borrowers based on RBI guidelines is not accounted as restructuring of loan. The RBI guidelines on
‘Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress’ provide a prudential framework for resolution plan of certain loans.
The borrowers where resolution plan was implemented under these guidelines are classified as standard restructured.
Non-performing and restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines or host country
regulations, as applicable.
Provisioning:
minimum provisioning requirements of RBI, are made on the basis of the ageing of the loan. The specific provisions on
non-performing retail loans and advances held by the Bank are higher than the minimum regulatory requirements.
171

--- Page 234 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) In respect of non-retail loans reported as fraud to RBI the entire amount, is provided for over a period not exceeding four quarters starting from the quarter in which fraud has been detected. In respect of non-retail loans where there has been delay in reporting the fraud to the RBI or which are classified as loss accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately. In case of fraud in retail accounts, the entire amount is provided immediately. In respect of borrowers classified as non-cooperative borrowers or willful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated provisions as per
RBI guidelines.
and advances in accordance with RBI directions, including RBI direction for provision on accounts referred to the
National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
due to diminution in the fair value of restructured/rescheduled loans and advances is made in accordance with the
applicable RBI guidelines.
In terms of RBI guidelines, the NPAs are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policy. Amounts recovered against
bad debts written-off are recognised in the profit and loss account.
loans and advances in overseas branches, the general provision is made at higher of aggregate provision required as
per host country regulations and RBI requirement.
0.25% to 25%. For exposures with contractual maturity of less than 180 days, provision is required to be held at 25%
of the rates applicable to exposures exceeding 180 days. The indirect exposure is reckoned at 50% of the exposure.
If the Bank’s net funded exposure in respect of a country is less than 1% of its total assets, no provision is required
on such country exposure.
implemented within the timelines prescribed by the RBI, from the date of default. These additional provisions are
written-back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
provision in the books. The Bank also makes additional contingency provision on certain standard assets. The
contingency provision is included in ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’.
and for making specific provision for impaired loans as per the requirement if extant RBI guidelines or any regulatory
guidance/instructions. The floating provision is netted-off from advances.
Depreciation/provision on non-performing investments is made based on the RBI guidelines.
de-recognised and gains/losses are accounted for, only if the Bank surrenders the right to benefits specified in the
underlying securitised loan contract. Recourse and servicing obligations are accounted for net of provisions.
172

--- Page 235 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) purpose vehicle to which the assets are sold. With effect from May 7, 2012, the RBI guidelines require the profit/ premium arising from securitisation to be amortised based on the method prescribed in the guidelines. As per the RBI guidelines issued on September 24, 2021, gain realised at the time of securitisation of loans is accounted through profit and loss account on completion of transaction. The Bank accounts for any loss arising from securitisation immediately
at the time of sale.
The unrealised gains, associated with expected future margin income is recognised in profit and loss account on
receipt of cash, after absorbing losses, if any.
from sale of loan assets through direct assignment is accounted through profit and loss account on completion
of transaction.
The acquired loans is carried at acquisition cost. In case premium is paid on a loan acquired, premium is amortised
over the loan tenure.
shortfall of sale value over the net book value on sale of such assets is recognised by the Bank in the year in which the
loan is sold.
are carried at revalued amount, being fair value at the date of revaluation less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes
freight, duties, taxes and incidental expenses related to the acquisition and installation of the asset.
during the year are depreciated on a pro-rata basis for the actual number of days the asset has been capitalised. Assets
individually costing upto ` 5,000/- are depreciated fully in the year of acquisition.
on sale of premises is appropriated to Capital Reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve and taxes, in accordance
with RBI guidelines.
The useful lives of the groups of fixed assets are given below.
1. T he useful life of fixed assets is based on historical experience of the Bank, which is different from the useful life as prescribed
in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
2. E xcludes software which are procured based on licensing arrangements and depreciated over the period of license.
3. Assets at residences of Bank’s employees are depreciated over the estimated useful life of 5 years.
173

--- Page 236 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) Non-banking assets Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are valued at the market value on a distress sale basis or value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI guidelines
or specific RBI directions.
are translated at daily closing rates, and income and expenditure items of non-integral foreign operations (foreign
branches and offshore banking units) are translated at quarterly average closing rates.
exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) relevant to the balance sheet date
and the resulting gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
cumulative/proportionate amount of such exchange differences as income or expenses, which relate to repatriation of
accumulated retained earnings from overseas operations, in the profit and loss account.
Contingent liabilities on account of guarantees, endorsements and other obligations denominated in foreign currencies
are disclosed at the closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI relevant to the balance sheet date.
the contract as interest income/expense. All other outstanding forward exchange contracts are revalued based on the
exchange rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities.
exchange rates implied by the swap curves in respective currencies. The resultant gains or losses are recognised in
the profit and loss account.
transaction is marked-to-market. Gains or losses arising from hedge ineffectiveness, if any, are recognised in the profit
and loss Account.
which remain overdue for more than 90 days and mark-to-market gains on other derivative contracts with the same
counter-parties are reversed through profit and loss account.
wholetime directors and employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. The options granted vest in a graded manner and
may be exercised within a specified period.
174

--- Page 237 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) Till March 31, 2021, the Bank recognised cost of stock options granted under Employee Stock Option Scheme, using intrinsic value method. Under Intrinsic value method, options cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the fair market price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant date. The fair market price is the closing price on the
stock exchange with highest trading volume of the underlying shares, immediately prior to the grant date.
used in the valuation model include assumptions such as the expected life of the share option, volatility, risk free rate
and dividend yield.
The cost of stock options is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
countries. The Bank makes contribution to recognised trust which administers the funds on its own account or through
insurance companies.
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year
are recognised in the profit and loss account.
management companies. The employees are given an option to receive the amount in cash in lieu of such contributions
along with their monthly salary during their employment.
are recognised in the profit and loss account. The Bank has no liability towards future benefits under superannuation
fund and national pension scheme other than its annual contribution.
relief on a monthly basis to these employees on their retirement based on the respective employee’s years of service
with the Bank and applicable salary.
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year
are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
175

--- Page 238 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to Employees’ Pension Scheme administered by the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner. The Bank makes balance contributions to a fund administered by trustees. The funds are invested according to the rules prescribed by the Government of India. The Bank recognises such contribution as an expense
in the year in which it is incurred.
Government under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. Actuarial valuation for the
interest obligation on the provident fund balances is determined by an actuary appointed by the Bank.
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines. The contribution made by the overseas branches
is recognised in profit and loss account at the time of contribution.
Compensated absences
The Bank provides for compensated absence based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
and as per Accounting Standard 22 - Accounting for Taxes on Income respectively. Deferred tax adjustments comprise
changes in the deferred tax assets or liabilities during the year and change in tax rate.
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The
impact of changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
as to whether their realisation is considered as reasonably certain. However, in case of unabsorbed depreciation or
carried forward loss, deferred tax assets will be recognised only if there is virtual certainty of realisation of such assets.
is considered to be close to its revalued amount. Accordingly, separate assessment for impairment of premises is
not required.
asset may be impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided in the profit and loss account to the extent the carrying
amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable amount.
reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made in the
financial statements. In case of remote possibility neither provision nor disclosure is made in the financial statements.
The Bank does not account for or disclose contingent assets, if any.
176

--- Page 239 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) The Bank estimates the probability of redemption of customer loyalty reward points using an actuarial method by employing an independent actuary and accordingly makes provision for these reward points. Actuarial valuation is determined based on certain assumptions regarding mortality rate, discount rate, cancellation rate and
redemption rate.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss after tax for the year attributable to equity
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares outstanding during the year, except where the results are
anti-dilutive.
14. Share issue expenses
Share issue expenses are deducted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
as commission at the time of sales to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending basis
and the interest expense/income is accounted on accrual basis.
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Bank are classified as finance lease. Minimum
lease payments under finance lease are apportioned between the finance costs and outstanding liability.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and
short notice.
177

--- Page 240 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 18
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE ACCOUNTS
The following disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards (ASs) and
Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines.
average number of equity shares and weighted average number of dilutive potential equity shares outstanding
during the year.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the computation of earnings per share.
Diluted weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 7,075,943,848 6,841,860,856
1. The dilutive impact is due to options granted to employees by the Bank.
2. Business/information ratios
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the business/information ratios.
1. F or the purpose of computing the ratio, working funds represent the monthly average of total assets computed for reporting dates
of Form X submitted to RBI under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
2. N et interest income/Average earning assets. Net interest income is the difference of interest income and interest expense. Average
earning assets are average of daily balance of interest earning assets.
3. Operating profit is profit for the year before provisions and contingencies.
4. F or the purpose of computing the ratio, assets represent the monthly average of total assets computed for reporting dates of Form
X submitted to RBI under Section 27 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.
5. C omputed based on average number of employees which include sales executives, employees on fixed term contracts and
interns.
6. T he average deposits and the average advances represent the simple average of the figures reported in Form A to RBI under
Section 42(2) of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934.
178

--- Page 241 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 3. Capital adequacy ratio The Bank is subject to the Basel III capital adequacy guidelines stipulated by RBI with effect from April 1, 2013. As
per the guidelines, the Tier-1 capital is made up of Common Equity Tier-1 (CET1) and Additional Tier-1.
CRAR, Tier-1 CRAR and CET1 CRAR requirement include capital conservation buffer of 2.50% and additional capital
requirement of 0.20% on account of the Bank being designated as Domestic Systemically Important Bank.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, computation of capital adequacy as per Basel III framework.
Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs) 8,835,909.9 7,854,102.5
CET1 CRAR (%) 17.60% 16.80%
Tier-1 CRAR (%) 18.35% 18.06% Tier-2 CRAR (%) 0.81% 1.06% Total CRAR (%) 19.16% 19.12% Leverage Ratio 9.95% 10.08% Percentage of the shareholding of 1. Government of India 0.19% 0.34% Amount of equity capital raised1 - 150,000.0
Amount of non-equity Tier-1 capital raised during the year, of which:
1. Additionally ` 7,988.8 million raised pursuant to exercise of employee stock options during the year ended March 31, 2022 (year
ended March 31, 2021: ` 5,306.3 million).
account of the Covid-19 pandemic, RBI permitted banks to maintain LCR at 80.0% from April 17, 2020, 90.0% from
October 1, 2020 and 100.0% from April 1, 2021.
179

--- Page 242 ---
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ehT .knaB eht fo
RCL
eht fo seulav dethgiew dna dethgiewnu fo egareva ylretrauq eht ,detacidni sdoirep eht rof ,htrof tes selbat gniwollof ehT gnitupmoc ni desu snoitavresbo fo rebmuN .retrauq eht gnirud snoitavresbo yliad fo egareva elpmis no desab detupmoc si
RCL
egareva ylretrauq dedne shtnom eerht ;syad 26
:
6.620,757,2
.A.N
6.492,039,2
.A.N
6.414,871,3
.A.N
6.344,767,2
.A.N
3.372,791,3
.A.N
stessa diuqil ytilauq hgih latoT .1 swolftuo hsaC llams morf stisoped dna stisoped liateR .2 2.935,264 1.303,165,5 3.493,874 6.397,837,5 6.196,294 6.369,698,5 9.208,744 3.909,293,5 03.266,105 05.083,799,5 :hcihw fo ,sremotsuc ssenisub 2.195,39 5.328,178,1 1.584,59 6.107,909,1 7.400,79 0.590,049,1 0.884,19 4.067,928,1 8.570,89 9.515,169,1 stisoped elbatS )i( 0.849,863 6.974,986,3 2.909,283 0.290,928,3 9.686,593 6.868,659,3 9.413,653 9.841,365,3 5.685,304 6.468,530,4 stisoped elbats sseL )ii( 7.061,295,1 9.843,319,2 4.993,466,1 6.087,830,3 8.898,628,1 8.318,633,3 4.930,515,1 6.002,718,2 3.328,738,1 6.503,744,3 :hcihw fo ,gnidnuf elaselohw derucesnU .3 stisoped lanoitarepO )i( - - - - - - - - - - )seitrapretnuoc lla( lla( stisoped lanoitarepo-noN )ii( 7.425,575,1 9.217,698,2 5.980,826,1 7.074,200,3 1.526,787,1 1.045,792,3 9.375,994,1 1.537,108,2 7.195,497,1 0.470,404,3 )seitrapretnuoc 0.636,61 0.636,61 9.903,63 9.903,63 7.372,93 7.372,93 5.564,51 5.564,51 6.132,34 6.132,34 tbed derucesnU )iii( -
.A.N
-
.A.N
-
.A.N
-
.A.N
-
.A.N
gnidnuf elaselohw deruceS .4 7.441,741 8.831,743 2.500,621 3.600,763 9.006,911 8.130,693 8.129,431 5.457,343 6.575,611 6.762,653 :hcihw fo ,stnemeriuqer lanoitiddA .5 serusopxe evitavired ot detaler swolftuO )i( 4.517,811 4.517,811 3.310,29 3.310,29 1.155,37 1.155,37 9.247,401 9.247,401 1.177,08 1.177,08 stnemeriuqer laretalloc rehto dna no gnidnuf fo ssol ot detaler swolftuO )ii( 8.69 8.69 1.601 1.601 6.101 6.101 2.551 2.551 0.211 0.211 stcudorp tbed ytidiuqil dna tiderC )iii( 5.233,82 6.623,822 8.588,33 9.688,472 2.849,54 1.973,223 7.320,03 4.658,832 5.296,53 5.483,572 seitilicaF 5.388,881 5.388,881 7.759,602 7.759,602 0.376,442 0.376,442 2.330,912 2.330,912 6.708,952 6.708,952 snoitagilbo gnidnuf lautcartnoc rehtO .6 9.315,251 6.459,535,3 8.826,161 5.153,527,3 5.965,271 5.677,359,3 9.279,831 0.598,552,3 7.764,371 4.516,389,3 snoitagilbo gnidnuf tnegnitnoc rehtO .7 0.242,345,2
.A.N
4.583,736,2
.A.N
8.334,658,2
.A.N
2.077,554,2
.A.N
5.633,988,2
.A.N
swolftuo hsac latoT .8 8.9 2.354,531 2.9 2.348,482 3.6 9.545,745 0.9 0.431,063 8.5 5.615,906 )soper esrever .g.e( gnidnel deruceS .9 3.758,263 1.032,364 7.737,883 3.631,805 1.745,853 5.450,374 1.844,793 5.073,025 5.196,883 8.446,415 serusopxe gnimrofrep ylluf morf swolfnI .01 8.522,75 0.945,28 3.611,15 1.675,77 4.529,94 9.510,87 8.067,45 7.054,08 7.826,16 6.215,29 swolfni hsac rehtO .11 9.290,024 3.232,186 2.368,934 6.555,078 8.874,804 3.616,890,1 9.712,254 2.559,069 0.623,054 9.376,612,1 swolfni hsac latoT .21 6.620,757,2
.A.N
6.492,039,2
.A.N
6.414,871,3
.A.N
6.344,767,2
.A.N
3.372,791,3
.A.N
ALQH latoT .31 1.941,321,2
.A.N
2.225,791,2
.A.N
0.559,744,2
.A.N
3.255,300,2
.A.N
5.010,934,2
.A.N
)21(-)8( swolftuo hsac ten latoT .41 %68.921
.A.N
%53.331
.A.N
%48.921
.A.N
%31.831
.A.N
%90.131
.A.N
)%( oitar egarevoc ytidiuqiL .51 Annual Report 2021-22 180

--- Page 243 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) Liquidity of the Bank is managed by the Asset Liability Management Group (ALMG) under the central oversight of the Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO). For the domestic operations of the Bank, ALMG-India is responsible for the overall management of liquidity. For the overseas branches of the Bank, a decentralised approach is followed for day-to-day liquidity management, while a centralised approach is followed for long-term funding in co-ordination with Head Office. Liquidity in the overseas branches is maintained taking into consideration both host country and
the RBI regulations.
allowed under marginal standing facility (MSF) and facility to avail liquidity for LCR (FALLCR) of ` 2,790,136.8 million
(March 31, 2021: ` 2,320,760.1 million).
of NDTL from January 1, 2022. Additionally, cash, balance in excess of cash reserve requirement with RBI and
balances with central banks at our overseas branches locations amounted to ` 263,064.3 million (March 31, 2021:
` 241,664.2 million). Further, average level 2 assets, primarily consisting of AA- and above rated corporate bonds
and commercial papers, amounted to ` 76,569.7 million (March 31, 2021: ` 83,472.8 million).
funds borrowed were more than 1.00% of the Bank’s total liabilities) were 2.37% of the total liabilities of the Bank at
March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: 1.43%).
(March 31, 2021: 5.66%) of the total weighted cash outflows, respectively. The other contingent funding obligations
primarily included bank guarantees (BGs) and letters of credit (LCs) issued on behalf of the Bank’s clients.
under CSAs. The potential outflows on account of such transactions have been considered based on the look-back
approach prescribed in the RBI guidelines.
The average LCR of the Bank for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was 131.09% (March 31, 2021: 138.13%).
currency, computed based on daily LCR values, was 256.23% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 (March 31,
2021: 333.26%).
181

--- Page 244 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 5. Information about business and geographical segments Business Segments Pursuant to the guidelines issued by RBI on AS 17 - Segment Reporting, the following business segments have
been reported.
value of individual exposures for retail exposures laid down in Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS)
document ‘International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards: A Revised Framework’.
This segment also includes income from credit cards, debit cards, third party product distribution and the
associated costs.
• Wholesale Banking includes all advances to trusts, partnership firms, companies and statutory bodies, which
are not included under Retail Banking.
• Treasury includes the entire investment and derivative portfolio of the Bank.
• Other Banking includes leasing operations and other items not attributable to any particular business segment.
• Unallocated includes items such as tax paid in advance net of provision, deferred tax and provisions to the
extent reckoned at the entity level.
Income, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are allocated to
segments on a systematic basis.
at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of assets being funded after adjusting for regulatory reserve
requirements.
The transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined based on
the transfer pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the business segment results on this basis.
16. Depreciation 8,068.8 3,130.8 399.6 111.8 11,711.0
1. Includes share capital and reserves and surplus.
182

--- Page 245 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million For the year ended March 31, 2021 Sr. Other Particulars Retail Wholesale No. Treasury Banking Total Banking Banking Business 1. Revenue 756,692.9 371,945.2 668,735.9 14,890.3 1,812,264.3 2. Less: Inter-segment revenue 831,396.3 3. Total revenue (1)-(2) 980,868.0 4. Segment results 77,399.7 58,199.5 110,803.7 2,924.3 249,327.2 5. Unallocated expenses 47,500.0 6. Operating profit (4)-(5) 201,827.2 7. Income tax expenses (including deferred tax credit) 39,900.4 8. Net profit/(loss) (6)-(7) 161,926.8 9. Segment assets 4,124,986.5 3,259,375.0 4,597,998.9 188,139.9 12,170,500.3 10. Unallocated assets 133,826.5 11. Total assets (9)+(10) 12,304,326.8 12. Segment liabilities 6,869,207.9 2,821,639.2 2,475,854.01 75,021.1 12,241,722.2 13. Unallocated liabilities 62,604.6 14. Total liabilities (12)+(13) 12,304,326.8 15. Capital expenditure 9,228.1 4,745.0 866.6 222.3 15,062.0 16. Depreciation 7,249.4 2,859.8 481.0 127.7 10,717.9
1. Includes share capital and reserves and surplus.
183

--- Page 246 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) Geographical segments
The Bank reports its operations under the following geographical segments.
• Domestic operations comprise branches in India.
• Foreign operations comprise branches outside India and offshore banking units in India.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, geographical segment results.
Total 14,013,781.6 12,170,500.3
1. Segment assets do not include tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) and deferred tax assets (net).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, capital expenditure and depreciation thereon for the
geographical segments.
184

--- Page 247 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 6. Maturity pattern
The following table sets forth, the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank at March 31, 2022.
Total 8,590,204.4 3,102,410.0 10,645,716.1 1,072,313.6 1,368,497.8 607,031.7
1. Includes foreign currency balances.
2. Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
The following table sets forth, the maturity pattern of assets and liabilities of the Bank at March 31, 2021.
Total 7,337,290.9 2,812,865.4 9,325,221.6 916,309.6 1,268,994.9 639,188.0
1. Includes foreign currency balances.
2. Excludes off-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
The estimates and assumptions used by the Bank for classification of assets and liabilities under the different maturity
buckets are based on the returns submitted to RBI for the relevant periods.
185

--- Page 248 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 7. Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS) In terms of the ESOS, as amended, the maximum number of options granted to any eligible employee in a financial year shall not exceed 0.05% of the issued equity shares of the Bank at the time of grant of the options and aggregate of all such options granted to the eligible employees shall not exceed 10.0% of the aggregate number of the issued equity shares of the Bank on the date(s) of the grant of options in line with SEBI Regulations. Under the stock option scheme, eligible employees are entitled to apply for equity shares. In April 2016, exercise period was modified from 10 years from the date of grant or five years from the date of vesting, whichever is later, to 10 years from the date of vesting. In June 2017, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 10 years from the date of vesting of options as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable for future grants. In May 2018, exercise period was further modified to not exceed 5 years from the date of vesting of options as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to be applicable
for future grants.
on April 30, 2019. Options granted in January 2018 vested at the end of four years from the date of grant. Certain
options granted in May 2018, vested to the extent of 50% on May 2021 and balance 50% would vest on May 2022.
in September 2011 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 15%, 20%, 20% and 45% of grant vesting
each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of the grant.
six months ended October 28, 2010. Of these options granted, 50% vested on April 30, 2014 and the balance 50%
vested on April 30, 2015.
The weighted average fair value, based on Black-Scholes model, of options granted during the year ended March 31,
2022 was ` 227.75 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 125.44).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
options granted.
option is based on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the Bank’s publicly traded equity
shares. Expected dividends during the estimated expected term of the option are based on recent dividend activity.
186

--- Page 249 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of the status of the Bank’s stock option plan.
Options exercisable 177,170,739 264.69 177,136,942 247.45
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2022.
800-899 19,000 810.25 6.92
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2021.
The options were exercised regularly throughout the period and weighted average share price as per National Stock
Exchange price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2022 was ` 703.14 (year ended March 31, 2021:
` 437.92).
187

--- Page 250 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 8. Subordinated debt During the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank did not raise (March 31, 2021: Nil) subordinated debt bonds
qualifying for Additional Tier-1 capital.
reverse repo transactions respectively including transactions under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF) and Marginal
Standing Facility (MSF).
outstanding outstanding outstanding balance at
Sr.
Particulars balance balance balance March 31,
No.
iii) Any other securities - - - -
1. Amounts reported are based on face value of securities under Repo and Reverse repo.
2. Amounts reported are based on lending/borrowing amount under tri-party repo, LAF and MSF.
outstanding outstanding outstanding balance at
Sr.
Particulars balance balance balance March 31,
No.
iii) Any other securities - - - -
1. Amounts reported are based on face value of securities under Repo and Reverse repo.
2. Amounts reported are based on lending/borrowing amount under under tri-party repo, LAF and MSF.
188

--- Page 251 ---
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) stnemtsevni fo noitisopmoC .01 .2202 ,13 hcraM ta knaB eht fo stnemtsevni fo noitisopmoc eht ,htrof stes elbat gniwollof ehT noillim ni ` aidnI edistuo stnemtsevnI aidnI ni stnemtsevnI tnemnrevoG latoT latoT seiraidisbuS seitiruces latoT seiraidisbuS rehtO stnemtsevnI serutnebeD tnemnrevoG stnemtsevnI srehtO tnioj ro/dna gnidulcni( stnemtsevni srehtO tnioj ro/dna serahS devorppA edistuo sdnoB dna seitiruceS serutnev lacol aidnI ni serutnev seitiruceS aidnI )seitirohtua ytirutaM ot dleH 0.447,660,2 4.438,02 5.531,1 9.896,91 - 6.909,540,2 8.645,3 6.739,84 6.208,1 7.45 - 9.765,199,1 ssorG rof noisivorP :sseL gnimrofrep-non 9.38 - - - - 9.38 - - - 7.45 - 2.92
)IPN(
stnemtsevni 1.066,660,2 4.438,02 5.531,1 9.896,91 - 7.528,540,2 8.645,3 6.739,84 6.208,1 - - 7.835,199,1 teN elaS rof elbaliavA 2.906,739 1.710,93 5.258,12 - 6.461,71 1.295,898 4.120,18 5.623,71 4.994,191 9.046,45 - 9.301,455 ssorG noisivorP :sseL noitaicerped rof 9.752,15 4.411,1 4.411,1 - - 5.341,05 3.989,31 - 5.264,5 7.196,03 - -
IPN
dna 3.153,688 7.209,73 1.837,02 - 6.461,71 6.844,848 1.230,76 5.623,71 9.630,681 2.949,32 - 9.301,455 teN gnidarT rof dleH 5.274,941 9.717,19 6.145,1 - 3.671,09 6.457,75 7.343,1 - 0.469,73 7.681 - 2.062,81 ssorG noisivorP :sseL noitaicerped rof 9.37 5.84 5.84 - - 4.52 - - - - - 4.52
IPN
dna 6.893,941 4.966,19 1.394,1 - 3.671,09 2.927,75 7.343,1 - 0.469,73 7.681 - 8.432,81 teN 7.528,351,3 4.965,151 6.925,42 9.896,91 9.043,701 3.652,200,3 9.119,58 1.462,66 0.662,132 3.288,45 - 0.239,365,2 stnemtsevnI latoT rof noisivorP :sseL gnimrofrep-non 9.38 - - - - 9.38 - - - 7.45 - 2.92 stnemtsevni noisivorP :sseL noitaicerped rof 8.133,15 9.261,1 9.261,1 - - 9.861,05 3.989,31 - 5.264,5 7.196,03 - 4.52
IPN
dna 0.014,201,3 5.604,051 7.663,32 9.896,91 9.043,701 5.300,259,2 6.229,17 1.462,66 5.308,522 9.531,42 - 4.778,365,2 teN Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements 189

--- Page 252 ---
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) .1202 ,13 hcraM ta knaB eht fo stnemtsevnI fo noitisopmoc eht htrof stes elbat gniwollof ehT noillim ni ` aidnI edistuo stnemtsevnI aidnI ni stnemtsevnI tnemnrevoG latoT latoT seiraidisbuS seitiruces latoT seiraidisbuS rehtO stnemtsevnI serutnebeD tnemnrevoG stnemtsevnI srehtO tnioj ro/dna gnidulcni( stnemtsevni srehtO tnioj ro/dna serahS devorppA edistuo sdnoB dna seitiruceS serutnev lacol aidnI ni serutnev seitiruceS aidnI )seitirohtua ytirutaM ot dleH 7.660,018,1 7.863,83 8.145,1 9.628,63 - 0.896,177,1 6.877,2 6.739,84 0.262,41 7.45 - 1.566,507,1 ssorG rof noisivorP :sseL gnimrofrep-non 9.38 - - - - 9.38 - - - 7.45 - 2.92
)IPN(
stnemtsevni 8.289,908,1 7.863,83 8.145,1 9.628,63 - 1.416,177,1 6.877,2 6.739,84 0.262,41 - - 9.536,507,1 teN elaS rof elbaliavA 9.441,578 9.627,81 2.379,61 - 7.357,1 0.814,658 9.935,511 3.108,11 8.355,642 3.544,46 - 7.770,814 ssorG noisivorP :sseL noitaicerped rof 5.386,94 4.601,1 4.601,1 - - 1.775,84 9.446,6 - 9.783,5 3.445,63 - -
IPN
dna 4.164,528 5.026,71 8.668,51 - 7.357,1 9.048,708 0.598,801 3.108,11 9.561,142 0.109,72 - 7.770,814 teN gnidarT rof dleH 0.544,771 6.868,941 - - 6.868,941 4.675,72 9.841 - 5.295,41 2.913 - 8.515,21 ssorG noisivorP :sseL noitaicerped rof 8.32 - - - - 8.32 - - 3.2 -- - 5.12
IPN
dna 2.124,771 6.868,941 - - 6.868,941 6.255,72 9.841 - 2.095,41 2.913 - 3.494,21 teN 6.656,268,2 2.469,602 0.515,81 9.628,63 3.226,151 4.296,556,2 4.764,811 9.837,06 3.804,572 2.918,46 - 6.852,631,2 stnemtsevnI latoT rof noisivorP :sseL gnimrofrep-non 9.38 - - - - 9.38 - - - 7.45 - 2.92 stnemtsevni noisivorP :sseL noitaicerped rof 3.707,94 4.601,1 4.601,1 - - 9.006,84 9.446,6 - 2.093,5 3.445,63 - 5.12
IPN
dna 4.568,218,2 8.758,502 6.804,71 9.628,63 3.226,151 6.700,706,2 5.228,111 9.837,06 1.810,072 2.022,82 - 9.702,631,2 teN Annual Report 2021-22 190

--- Page 253 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 11. Movement of provisions for depreciation on investments and Investment Fluctuation Reserve The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the movement of provisions for depreciation on investments
and Investment Fluctuation Reserve of the Bank.
T he following table sets forth, the issuer composition of investments of the Bank in securities, other than
government and other approved securities at March 31, 2022.
Subsidiaries/Joint
5.
Provision held towards
7.
depreciation (51,361.1) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total 538,532.7 304,554.7 33,769.8 872.2 12,626.7
1. Amounts reported under columns (a), (b), (c) and (d) above are not mutually exclusive.
one year issued by corporate (including NBFC), unlisted convertible debentures and securities acquired by way of conversion
of debt.
3. I ncludes investments in non-Indian government securities by overseas branches amounting to ` 104,390.9 million.
4. Excludes investments in non-SLR government of India securities amounting to ` 94.5 million.
5. Represents security receipts.
191

--- Page 254 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) The following table sets forth, the issuer composition of investments of the Bank in securities, other than government
and other approved securities at March 31, 2021.
Subsidiaries/Joint
5.
Provision held towards
7.
depreciation (49,740.5) N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A.
Total 676,657.4 304,472.1 40,475.0 1,826.6 35,999.5
1. Amounts reported under columns (a), (b), (c) and (d) above are not mutually exclusive.
one year issued by corporate (including NBFC), unlisted convertible debentures and securities acquired by way of conversion
of debt.
3. Excludes investments in non-SLR government of India securities amounting to ` 108.0 million.
4. Includes security receipts of ` 23,902.0 million and PTCs of ` 6,642.3 million.
5. Includes investments in non-Indian government securities by overseas branches amounting to ` 151,622.3 million.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in gross non-performing investments in
securities, other than government and other approved securities.
repurchase of government securities by Government of India and state development loans by concerned state
government under buyback or switch operations and additional shifting of securities explicitly permitted by RBI.
192

--- Page 255 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 14. Derivatives The Bank is a major participant in the financial derivatives market. The Bank deals in derivatives for balance sheet management, proprietary trading and market making purposes whereby the Bank offers derivative products to its
customers, enabling them to hedge their risks.
activities such as confirmation, settlement, accounting, risk monitoring and reporting and ensures compliance with
various internal and regulatory guidelines.
and recovery policy, investment policy, derivative policy, asset liability management (ALM) policy and operational
risk management policy. The RCB comprises independent directors and the Managing Director & CEO.
loss limits and relevant greeks for options. Risk reporting on derivatives forms an integral part of the management
information system.
The use of derivatives for hedging purposes is governed by the hedge policy approved by ALCO. Subject to prevailing
RBI guidelines, the Bank deals in derivatives for hedging fixed rate, floating rate or foreign currency assets/liabilities.
identifies the hedged item (asset or liability) at the inception of the hedge itself. The effectiveness is assessed at the
time of inception of the hedge and periodically thereafter.
exchange contracts, not intended for trading purpose, is amortised over the life of the contract as interest
income/expense.
(ISDA) master agreements with the respective counter parties. The exposure on account of derivative transactions
is computed as per RBI guidelines.
on the international front, and the work carried out alongside Indian Banking Association (IBA). An update on the
activities on the LIBOR transition and the proceedings of the Working Group are presented quarterly to the ALCO.
market for USD LIBOR linked trades. The Bank does not expect material valuation risk arising out of non-alignment
of fallback provisions of commercially linked positions i.e., trading deals and on the existing hedge deals of the Bank.
193

--- Page 256 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the details of derivative positions.
At March 31, 2022 At March 31, 2021
Sr.
Particulars Currency Interest rate Currency Interest rate
No.
Minimum 2,440.3 1,170.2 2,194.1 1,531.9
1. Exchange traded and OTC options, cross currency interest rate swaps and currency futures are included in currency derivatives.
2. O TC Interest rate options, Interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements, swaptions and exchange traded interest rate derivatives
are included in interest rate derivatives.
3. For trading portfolio including accrued interest.
4. Includes accrued interest and has been computed based on current exposure method.
5. Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis, excluding options.
6. T he swap contracts entered into for hedging purpose would have an opposite and off-setting impact with the underlying on-
balance sheet items.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the details of forex contracts.
interest rate (100*PV01)2 42.3 39.8 66.1 94.1
1. Computed based on current exposure method.
2. Amounts given are absolute values on a net basis.
194

--- Page 257 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) As per the Master circular on Basel III Capital Regulations issued by RBI on July 1, 2015 on capital adequacy computation, ‘Banks in India shall adopt the comprehensive approach, which allows fuller offset of collateral against exposures, by effectively reducing the exposure amount by the value ascribed to the collateral’. Therefore, counterparty exposure has been fully off-set against the collateral received from the counterparty and the excess collateral posted over the net MTM payable is reckoned as exposure. Since, the collateral received is counterparty- wise and not product-wise, the derivative exposure reported above has not been adjusted for the collateral received/ posted. At March 31, 2022, collateral utilised against the exposure was ` 7,762.9 million (March 31, 2021: ` 7,385.2 million), excess collateral posted over the exposure was ` 1,959.5 million (March 31, 2021: ` 743.7 million) and the net credit exposure on forex and derivatives, subsequent to collateral netting, was ` 620,386.1 million (March 31,
2021: ` 505,790.8 million).
The net overnight open position (NOOP) at March 31, 2022 (as per last NOOP value reported to RBI for the year
ended March 31, 2022) was ` 6,202.9 million (March 31, 2021: ` 4,200.2 million).
The Bank has no exposure in credit derivative instruments (funded and non-funded) including credit default swaps
(CDS) and principal protected structures at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: Nil).
Exchange traded interest rate derivatives
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exchange traded interest rate derivatives.
3. Notional principal amount of exchange traded interest rate
derivatives outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
4. Mark-to-market value of exchange traded interest rate derivatives
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
Exchange traded currency derivatives
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exchange traded currency derivatives.
3. Notional principal amount of exchange traded currency derivatives
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
4. Mark-to-market value of exchange traded currency derivatives
outstanding and not ‘highly effective’ N.A. N.A.
195

--- Page 258 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 16. Forward rate agreement (FRA)/Interest rate swaps (IRS)/Cross currency swaps (CCS) The Bank enters into FRA, IRS and CCS contracts for balance sheet management and market making purposes whereby the Bank offers derivative products to its customers to enable them to hedge their interest rate risk and
currency risk within the prevalent regulatory guidelines.
on the settlement date, are made by the parties to one another. The benchmark used in the FRA contracts of the Bank
is London Inter-Bank Offered Rate (LIBOR) of various currencies.
benchmarks like Mumbai Inter-Bank Offered Rate (MIBOR), Indian Government Securities Benchmark Rate (INBMK),
Mumbai Inter-Bank Forward Offer Rate (MIFOR) and LIBOR of various currencies.
A CCS is a financial contract between two parties exchanging interest payments and principal, wherein interest
payments and principal in one currency would be exchanged for interest payments and principal in another currency.
These contracts are subject to the risks of changes in market interest rates and currency rates as well as the settlement
risk with the counterparties.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of the FRA/IRS.
1. F or trading portfolio both mark-to-market and accrued interest have been considered and for hedging portfolio only accrued
interest has been considered.
2. Credit risk concentration is measured as the highest net receivable under these contracts from a particular counter party.
3. Fair value represents mark- to-market including accrued interest.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of the CCS.
5. Fair value of CCS4 2,672.3 9,126.1
1. CCS includes cross currency interest rate swaps and currency swaps.
2. F or trading portfolio both mark-to-market and accrued interest have been considered and for hedging portfolio only accrued
interest has been considered.
3. Credit risk concentration is measured as the highest net receivable under these contracts from a particular counter party.
196

--- Page 259 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the nature and terms of FRA and IRS.
197

--- Page 260 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the nature and terms of CCS.
Fixed receivable v/s Floating payable
USD LIBOR 879.3 1 - -
GBP LIBOR V/s Floating receivable v/s floating USD LIBOR payable 1,720.6 3 2,952.3 5 GBP LIBOR V/s Floating payable v/s floating USD LIBOR receivable 2,349.2 5 3,321.3 6 GBP SONIA Floating receivable v/s Floating v/s USD SOFR payable 536.1 1 - - JPY LIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable - - 343.0 1 JPY LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable - - 134.9 1 JPY LIBOR V/s Floating receivable v/s floating USD LIBOR payable 568.5 2 7,976.6 8 JPY LIBOR V/s Floating payable v/s floating USD LIBOR receivable 276.3 2 317.8 2 MIFOR v/s Floating receivable v/s floating USD LIBOR payable 4,626.3 3 4,626.3 3 SGD SOR V/s Floating receivable v/s floating USD LIBOR payable 454.8 1 438.7 1 SGD SOR V/s Floating payable v/s floating USD LIBOR receivable 151.6 1 365.6 2 USD LIBOR Fixed receivable v/s floating payable 169,718.5 140 159,880.7 195 USD LIBOR Floating receivable v/s fixed payable 93,076.2 79 95,861.9 86 USD SOFR Fixed payable v/s floating receivable 750.0 1 - - Others Fixed receivable v/s fixed payable 182,079.5 193 181,760.1 189 Total 498,337.7 474 481,715.7 540
1. Benchmark indicates floating leg of the fixed v/s floating CCS.
198

--- Page 261 ---
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) dleh snoisivorp dna secnavda fo noitacifissalC .71 .2202 ,13 hcraM ta dleh snoisivorp dna secnavda fo noitacifissalc eht ,htrof stes elbat gniwollof ehT noillim ni ` latoT gnimrofreP-noN dradnatS -noN latoT ssoL luftbuoD -buS latoT gnimrofreP dradnats dradnatS secnavdA secnavdA sAPN dna secnavdA dradnatS ssorG 2.034,556,7 2.414,804 7.369,54 8.111,532 7.833,721 0.610,742,7 ecnalaB gninepO 1.019,291 raey eht gnirud snoitiddA :ddA )1.573,862( *raey eht gnirud snoitcudeR :sseL 4.367,658,8 2.949,233 7.216,07 7.720,771 8.803,58 1.418,325,8 ecnalab gnisolC :ot eud sAPN ssorG ni snoitcudeR* )2.834,401( noitadargpU )i )0.954,26( )stnuocca dedargpu morf seirevocer gnidulcxe( seirevoceR )ii )9.795,19( sffo-etirW laitnedurP /lacinhceT )iii )0.088,9( evoba )iii( rednu esoht naht rehto sffo-etirW )vi )snoisivorP gnitaolF gnidulcxe( snoisivorP 4.731,813 7.532,713 7.369,54 4.259,412 6.913,65 7.109 dleh snoisivorp fo ecnalab gninepO 3.388,121 raey eht gnirud edam snoisivorp hserF :ddA )1.284,571( snaol ffo-etirW /desrever noisivorp ssecxE :sseL 1.755,662 9.636,362 7.216,07 1.489,351 1.040,93 2.029,2 dleh snoisivorp fo ecnalab gnisolC sAPN teN 6.671,19 - 4.951,02 2.710,17 ecnalaB gninepO 3.685,89 raey eht gnirud snoitidda hserF :ddA )5.254,021( raey eht gnirud snoitcudeR :sseL 4.013,96 - 6.340,32 8.662,64 ecnalaB gnisolC 9.1 snoisivorP gnitaolF - ecnalaB gninepO - raey eht gnirud edam snoisivorp lanoitiddA :ddA - raey eht gnirud nwod nward tnuomA :sseL 9.1 snoisivorp gnitaolf fo ecnalab gnisolC noereht edam seirevocer eht dna sffo-etirw lacinhceT 5.224,614 stnuocca ffo-nettirw laitnedurP /lacinhceT fo ecnalab gninepO 9.693,89 raey eht gnirud sffo-etirw laitnedurP /lacinhceT :ddA laitnedurp /lacinhcet ylsuoiverp morf edam seirevoceR :sseL )7.497,9( raey eht gnirud stnuocca ffo-nettirw -nettirw laitnedurp/lacinhcet ylsuoiverp morf edam ecifircaS :sseL )6.544,82( raey eht gnirud stnuocca ffo 1.975,674 ecnalab gnisolC Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements 199

--- Page 262 ---
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) .1202 ,13 hcraM ta dleh snoisivorp dna secnavda fo noitacifissalc eht ,htrof stes elbat gniwollof ehT noillim ni ` latoT gnimrofreP-noN dradnatS -noN latoT ssoL luftbuoD -buS latoT gnimrofreP dradnats dradnatS secnavdA secnavdA sAPN dna secnavdA dradnatS ssorG 3.309,267,6 9.092,804 6.895,24 6.481,303 7.705,26 4.216,453,6 ecnalaB gninepO 2.284,061 raey eht gnirud snoitiddA :ddA )9.853,061( *raey eht gnirud snoitcudeR :sseL 2.034,556,7 2.414,804 7.369,54 8.111,532 7.833,721 0.610,742,7 ecnalab gnisolC :ot eud sAPN ssorG ni snoitcudeR* )2.645,71( noitadargpU )i )4.647,74( )stnuocca dedargpu morf seirevocer gnidulcxe( seirevoceR )ii )9.414,19( sffo-etirW laitnedurP /lacinhceT )iii )4.156,3( evoba )iii( rednu esoht naht rehto sffo-etirW )vi )snoisivorP gnitaolF gnidulcxe( snoisivorP 8.100,013 7.650,903 6.895,24 8.717,642 3.047,91 1.549 dleh snoisivorp fo ecnalab gninepO 3.515,331 raey eht gnirud edam snoisivorp hserF :ddA )2.633,521( snaol ffo-etirW /desrever noisivorp ssecxE :sseL 4.731,813 7.532,713 7.369,54 4.259,412 6.913,65 7.109 dleh snoisivorp fo ecnalab gnisolC sAPN teN 4.232,99 - 8.664,65 6.567,24 ecnalaB gninepO 9.171,08 raey eht gnirud snoitidda hserF :ddA )7.722,88( raey eht gnirud snoitcudeR :sseL 6.671,19 - 4.951,02 2.710,17 ecnalaB gnisolC snoisivorP gnitaolF 9.1 ecnalaB gninepO - raey eht gnirud edam snoisivorp lanoitiddA :ddA - raey eht gnirud nwod nward tnuomA :sseL 9.1 snoisivorp gnitaolf fo ecnalab gnisolC noereht edam seirevocer eht dna sffo-etirw lacinhceT 5.873,143 stnuocca ffo-nettirw laitnedurP /lacinhceT fo ecnalab gninepO 5.886,28 raey eht gnirud sffo-etirw laitnedurP /lacinhceT :ddA laitnedurp /lacinhcet ylsuoiverp morf edam seirevoceR :sseL )3.286,1( raey eht gnirud stnuocca ffo-nettirw laitnedurp/lacinhcet ylsuoiverp morf edam ecifircaS :sseL )2.269,5( raey eht gnirud stnuocca ffo-nettirw 5.224,614 ecnalab gnisolC Annual Report 2021-22 200

--- Page 263 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
Following table sets forth, for the period indicated, NPA ratios of the Bank.
March 31, 2021: Nil) as per the requirement of these guidelines and made a provision of ` 3,975.6 million (year
ended March 31, 2021: Nil) on these loans.
provisioning for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for the year ended March 31, 2021 and
for the year ended March 31, 2020.
2021: ` 35,842.8 million). The Bank made general provision on standard assets amounting to ` 4,492.5 million during
the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 2,288.3 million) as per applicable RBI guidelines.
the borrowers through its credit appraisal and internal ratings process. The Bank also undertakes review of UFCE
for large exposures on annual basis.
` 480.0 million on advances to entities with UFCE (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 120.0 million). The Bank held
incremental capital of ` 9,360.0 million at March 31, 2022 on advances to borrowers with UFCE (March 31, 2021:
` 8,860.0 million).
` 233.3 million (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 756.7 million). At March 31, 2022, the Bank held provision amounting
to ` 1,350.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 1,583.3 million).
2021: ` 205.9 million) towards advances to overseas step-down subsidiaries of Indian corporates. The Bank held
provision amounting to ` 909.7 million at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: ` 762.2 million).
201

--- Page 264 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) RBI, through its circular dated August 25, 2016, required banks to make additional provision from the year ended March 31, 2019 on incremental exposure of the banking system in excess of normally permitted lending limit (NPLL) on borrowers classified as specified borrower. During the year ended March 31, 2022, there was a write-back of provision amounting to ` 68.6 million (year ended March 31, 2021: made provision of ` 248.5 million) on these
specified borrowers. The Bank held provision amounting to ` 261.4 million at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021:
` 330.0 million).
20. Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLCs)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, details of PSLCs purchased and sold by the Bank.
a) Details of loan not in default sold/acquired by the Bank as per Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Transfer
of Loan Exposures) Directions, 2021.
1. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of loans not in default sold/acquired under
assignment:
1. In addition, the Bank acquired unfunded loans amounting to ` 2,840.0 million and sold un-funded loans amounting
to ` 1,250.0 million through novation.
2. In addition, the Bank acquired loans amounting to ` 2,192.4 million through risk participation in the secondary
market.
2. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of the loans sold/acquired
under assignment:
Loans acquired Loans sold
IND A+ - 493.8
CARE A- - 998.3
CRISIL A - 1,000.0
Moody’s B1 1,136.9 -
CRISIL AA+ - 1,894.8
1. Excluding retail and other unrated loans.
202

--- Page 265 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
b) Details of stressed loans sold/acquired by the Bank.
1. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, details of stressed loans classified as NPA sold by
the Bank.
and to permitted transferees was ` 975.5 million (year ended March 31, 2021: ARCs ` 69.7 million and permitted
transferees ` 75.3 million).
2. Net of write-off.
3. For NPAs, the Bank issues loan recall notice and initiates legal proceedings for recovery, due to which the weighted
average residual tenor is not applicable.
4. Net of write-off and provisions.
2. The Bank has not sold/acquired loan classified as Special Mention Account (SMA) during the year ended
March 31, 2022.
3. The Bank has not acquired non-performing loans during the year ended March 31, 2022.
4. The following table sets forth, for the period indicated, rating-wise distribution of SRs held by the bank.
Total 18,027.6
1. Amount represents net of provisions.
2. Additionally, the Bank holds marked-to-market loss of ` 3,660.4 million and additional provision of ` 6,293.3 million
at March 31, 2022.
203

--- Page 266 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 22. Securitisation Following table sets forth details of securitisation of standard assets of the Bank as per Master Direction –
Reserve Bank of India (Securitisation of Standard Assets) Directions, 2021 for the year ended March 31, 2022.
loss on sale on account of securitisation1 - (64.2)
6. Outstanding amount of services provided by way of:
204

--- Page 267 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Sr. Particulars Year ended Year ended No. March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 a) First loss credit facility • Amount paid (0.01%)4 -3 -3 • Repayment received (0.01%)4 -3 -3 • Outstanding amount 734.9 734.9 b) Second loss credit facility • Amount paid - - • Repayment received - - • Outstanding amount2 3,330.0 4,215.2 c) Liquidity facility • Amount paid (0.02%)4,5 -3 3.1 • Repayment received (0.08%)4,5 0.2 3.5 • Outstanding amount 209.7 209.6 8. Average default rate of portfolios observed at the year end a) MBS deals (cumulative in %) 1.5 1.5 b) ABS deals (cumulative in %) - - 9. Amount and number of additional/top up loan given on same
underlying loans.
1. I ncludes gain/(loss) on deal closures, gain amortised during the year and expenses relating to utilisation of credit enhancement
for all the outstanding deals.
3. Insignificant amount
4. Percentage has been derived based on opening outstanding balance of the facility.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of accounts restructured under MSME sector
under RBI guidelines issued in January 2019.
205

--- Page 268 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 24. Resolution of stressed assets During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank implemented resolution plan for five borrower amounting to ` 10,365.3 million (March 31, 2021: three borrowers for ` 6,553.2 million) under the prudential framework for stressed
assets issued by RBI on June 7, 2019.
Covid-19 related stress of individuals and small borrowers as per RBI circular dated May 5, 2021 (Resolution
Framework 2.0):
September 30, March 31, 2022
2021 (A)1
Personal Loans4 43,275.3 6,382.4 232.3 5,738.1 31,154.8 Corporate persons 29,001.8 - - 11,964.8 17,037.0 Of which MSMEs - - - - - Others 8,634.2 1,456.3 17.4 (499.4) 7,677.3 Total 80,911.3 7,838.7 249.7 17,203.5 55,869.1 * As defined in Section 3(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016
1. Includes cases where request received till September 30, 2021 and implemented subsequently.
2. Includes cases which have been written off during the period.
3. Net of increase in exposure during the period.
4. Includes various categories of retail loans.
the Bank 11.84% 13.77%
1. Represents credit exposure (funded and non-funded) including derivatives exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure norms.
206

--- Page 269 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million At At Concentration of exposures1 March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Total exposure to 20 largest borrowers/customers (including banks) 2,002,175.1 2,058,661.7 Exposures to 20 largest borrowers/customers as a percentage of total exposure of the Bank 12.03% 14.47%
1. Represents credit and investment exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure norms.
Exposure of 20 largest NPA as a percentage of total Gross NPAs 42.30% 35.70%
1. Represents credit and investment exposures as per RBI guidelines on exposure norms.
3. Services 459,446.3 10,019.6 2.18%
of which:
4. Personal loans 714,700.4 18,457.9 2.58%
of which:
2. Advances to industries sector 1,637,148.8 178,096.7 10.88%
of which:
3. Services 1,533,962.2 40,701.4 2.65%
of which:
4. Personal loans2 3,156,836.6 46,647.1 1.48%
of which:
Total (A)+(B) 8,856,763.4 332,949.2 3.76%
1. Represents loans and advances.
2. Excludes commercial business loans and dealer funding.
3. Sub-sectors have been disclosed where advances exceed 10% of total advances in that sector at reporting date.
207

--- Page 270 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million, except percentages At March 31, 2021 Sr. Outstanding Gross NPAs1 % of gross NPAs1 Particulars No. advances to total advances in that sector A. Priority sector 1. Agriculture and allied activities 480,800.5 20,583.1 4.28% 2. Advances to industries sector eligible as priority sector lending 546,536.4 8,801.7 1.61% 3. Services 305,603.6 16,078.3 5.26%
of which:
4. Personal loans 740,504.6 25,449.8 3.44%
of which:
2. Advances to industries sector 1,593,220.4 211,424.1 13.27%
of which:
3. Services 1,400,763.5 59,334.5 4.24%
of which:
4. Personal loans2 2,588,001.2 66,742.7 2.58%
of which:
Total (A)+(B) 7,655,430.2 408,414.2 5.33%
1. Represents loans and advances.
2. Excludes commercial business loans and dealer funding.
3. Sub-sectors have been disclosed where advances exceed 10% of total advances in that sector at reporting date.
208

--- Page 271 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) (III) Overseas assets, NPAs1 and revenue ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Total assets2 865,806.3 858,033.1 Total NPAs (net) 6,236.0 10,972.5 Total revenue2 18,399.6 17,385.6
1. Represents loans and advances.
2. R epresents the total assets and total revenue of foreign operations as reported in Schedule 18 of the financial statements,
note no. 5 on information about business and geographical segments.
consolidated as per accounting norms) for the year ended March 31, 2022
1. The following table sets forth, the names of SPVs/trusts sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries which are consolidated.
None
1. SPVs/Trusts which are consolidated and set-up/sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries of the Bank.
2. The nature of business of the above entities is venture capital fund.
2. The following table sets forth, the names of SPVs/trusts which are not sponsored by the Bank/subsidiaries and
are consolidated.
27. Intra-group exposure
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of intra-group exposure.
209

--- Page 272 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 28. Exposure to sensitive sectors The Bank has exposure to sectors, which are sensitive to asset price fluctuations. The sensitive sectors include
capital markets and real estate.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the position of exposure to capital market sector.
Resolution of Stressed Assets” and investments of ` 17,116.6 million (March 31, 2021: ` 17,566.1 million) were acquired under
other resolution schemes of RBI.
210

--- Page 273 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of exposure to real estate sector.
loans is from a real estate activity and exposures to mutual funds/venture capital funds/private equity funds investing primarily
in the real estate companies.
million (March 31, 2021: ` 31,268.6 million) which are reported under ‘Bills purchased and discounted’ in Schedule
9 – Advances of the balance sheet.
the following table. The funded country exposure (net) of the Bank as a percentage of total funded assets for United
States of America was 3.53% (March 31, 2021: 4.07%), and for United Kingdom was 1.22% (March 31, 2021: 1.28%).
of total funded assets (March 31, 2021: United States of America and United Kingdom), the Bank held a provision of
` 580.0 million on country exposure at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: ` 565.0 million) based on RBI guidelines.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of exposure (net) and provision held by the bank.
211

--- Page 274 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 31. Unsecured advances against intangible assets The Bank has not made advances against intangible collaterals of the borrowers, which are classified as ‘Unsecured’
in the financial statements at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: Nil).
was ` 57,269.6 million (March 31, 2021: ` 56,451.6 million) as compared to the historical cost less accumulated
depreciation of ` 25,313.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 25,515.7 million).
The revaluation reserve is not available for distribution of dividend.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in software acquired by the Bank, as included
in fixed assets.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank did not acquire any non-banking assets under debt-asset swap
transactions (year ended March 31, 2021: Nil).
ended March 31, 2021: ` 942.4 million), which were fully provided, at a sale consideration of ` 430.5 million (year
ended March 31, 2021: ` 1,263.0 million).
The net book value of non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims by the Bank outstanding at
March 31, 2022 amounted to Nil (March 31, 2021: Nil), net of provision held of ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2021:
` 29,575.4 million).
212

--- Page 275 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 35. Lease I. Assets taken under operating lease
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises which are renewable at the option of the Bank.
(i) The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of liability for premises taken on non-
cancellable operating leases.
(ii) Total of non-cancellable lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year ended March 31,
2022 is ` 283.6 million (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 301.9 million).
II. Assets taken under finance lease
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of assets taken on finance leases.
213

--- Page 276 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 36. Description of contingent liabilities
The following table describes the nature of contingent liabilities of the Bank.
Sr.
Contingent liability Brief Description
No.
1. Claims against This item represents demands made in certain tax and legal matters against the
the Bank, not Bank in the normal course of business and customer claims arising in fraud cases.
debts and classified these items as possible obligations based on legal opinion/judicial
precedents/assessment by the Bank.
paid investments investments. These payment obligations of the Bank do not have any profit/loss
impact.
higher number of outstanding transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional
principal of the portfolio, while the net market risk is lower.
endorsements and either directly or in case the customers fail to fulfill their financial or performance
other obligations obligations.
transactions, and hence a large value of gross notional principal of the portfolio,
while the net market risk is lower.
of undertaking and indemnity letters. Capital contracts are job orders of a capital
nature which have been committed.
37. Insurance business
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of income derived from insurance business.
214

--- Page 277 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 38. Marketing & Distribution
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, income received from marketing and distribution function.
Income received in respect of the marketing and distribution 4,721.6 3,341.6
1. Includes referral fees, commission and fees received on distribution/cross selling of various products including mutual funds.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for pension benefits.
215

--- Page 278 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Assumptions Discount rate 6.30% 5.75%
Salary escalation rate:
Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.50% 7.50%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for gratuity benefits.
216

--- Page 279 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Actuarial gain/(loss) (64.9) 720.2 Contributions 1,078.9 1,247.0 Asset transferred from/to other companies 1.9 4.9 Benefits paid (1,319.0) (756.8) Closing plan assets, at fair value 13,577.4 12,934.8 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 13,577.4 12,934.8 Present value of the defined benefit obligations at the end of the year (13,590.0) (12,842.8) Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in Para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’) - - Asset/(liability) (12.6) 92.0 Cost1 Service cost 1,294.5 1,265.4 Interest cost 875.8 818.3 Expected return on plan assets (945.7) (842.4) Actuarial (gain)/loss (47.1) (1,134.6) Past service cost - (6.8) Exchange fluctuation loss/(gain) 6.0 (6.5) Effect of the limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’ - - Net cost 1,183.6 93.4 Actual return on plan assets 880.7 1,562.6 Expected employer’s contribution next year 800.0 800.0 Investment details of plan assets Insurer managed funds - - Government of India securities 29.29% 36.52% Corporate bonds 47.96% 45.49% Equity 20.65% 14.22% Others 2.10% 3.77% Assumptions Discount rate 6.85% 6.55% Salary escalation rate 7.00% 7.00% Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.50% 7.50%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
217

--- Page 280 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take into consideration inflation, seniority,
promotion and other relevant factors.
As there is no liability towards interest rate guarantee on exempt provident fund on the basis of actuarial valuation,
the Bank has not made any provision for the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: Nil).
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for provident fund.
218

--- Page 281 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Cost2 Service cost 1,972.5 1,656.3 Interest cost 2,620.3 2,210.2 Expected return on plan assets (3,434.2) (3,147.4) Actuarial (gain)/loss (397.0) 937.3 Effect of the limit in Para 59(b)1 1,210.9 - Net cost 1,972.5 1,656.4 Actual return on plan assets 3,680.4 3,677.9 Expected employer's contribution next year 2,110.6 1,772.3 Investment details of plan assets Government of India securities 53.53% 49.41% Corporate bonds 36.18% 41.98% Special deposit scheme 1.22% 1.37% Others 9.07% 7.23% Assumption Discount rate 6.85% 6.55% Expected rate of return on assets 8.25% 8.59% Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of investments 6.85% 6.50% Average historic yield on the investment 8.25% 8.54% Guaranteed rate of return 8.10% 8.50% 1. P ursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guaranatees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS15 (Revised)” issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by the PF Trust have been fair
valued. The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
2. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
(Revised)” issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by the PF Trust have been fair
valued. The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
March 31, 2021: ` 2,882.6 million), which includes compulsory contribution made towards employee pension
scheme under Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.
219

--- Page 282 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) Superannuation Fund The Bank has contributed ` 255.9 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 233.9
million) to Superannuation Fund for employees who had opted for the scheme.
The Bank has contributed ` 224.8 million for the period ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 182.7
million) to NPS for employees who had opted for the scheme.
Compensated absence
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for compensated absence.
Salary escalation rate 7.00% 7.00%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule-16 Operating expenses.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for credit cards/debit cards/savings
accounts reward points.
Closing provision for reward points1 3,278.3 2,612.6
1. The closing provision is based on the actuarial valuation of accumulated credit cards/debit cards/savings accounts reward points.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement in provision for reward points to direct marketing
agents.
220

--- Page 283 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 41. Provisions and contingencies The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of provisions and contingencies included in
profit and loss account.
Total provisions and contingencies 159,108.2 202,044.4
1. Includes provision towards NPA amounting to ` 37,077.5 million (March 31, 2021: ` 103,640.6 million).
2. N et of write-back of Covid-19 related provision amounting to ` 10,500.0 million during the year ended March 31, 2022 (March 31,
2021: net Covid-19 related provision made amounting to ` 47,500.0 million).
3. Includes contingency provision made amounting to ` 10,250.0 million on a prudent basis during the year ended March 31, 2022.
4. I ncludes general provision made towards standard assets, provision on fixed assets acquired under debt-asset swap and non-
fund based facilities.
contingent liabilities in the financial statements. The Bank does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have
a materially adverse effect on its financial results.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in provision for legal and fraud cases,
operational risk and other contingencies.
Closing provision 43,991.3 27,527.9
1. Excludes provision towards sundry expenses.
The provision for income tax (including deferred tax) for the year ended March 31, 2022 amounted to ` 72,693.9
million (March 31, 2021: ` 39,900.3 million).
international related parties and specified transactions with domestic related parties are primarily at arm’s length so
that the above legislation does not have material impact on the financial statements.
221

--- Page 284 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 43. Deferred tax
At March 31, 2022, the Bank has recorded net deferred tax assets of ` 77,732.7 million (March 31, 2021:
` 87,444.7 million), which have been included in other assets.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of deferred tax assets and liabilities into
major items.
Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 77,732.7 87,444.7
1. Tax rate of 25.168% is adopted based on Finance Act, 2020.
2. These items are considered in accordance with the requirements of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS).
44. Details of provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of provisioning pertaining to fraud accounts.
under ‘Reserves and Surplus’ - -
1 . Excludes amount written off and interest reversal.
the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 2 per equity share). The declaration and payment of
dividend is subject to requisite approvals.
222

--- Page 285 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 46. Related party transactions The Bank has transactions with its related parties comprising subsidiaries, associates/joint ventures/other related
entities, key management personnel and relatives of key management personnel.
1. F rom April 1, 2021, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited ceased to be a subsidiary and became an associate
of the Bank.
223

--- Page 286 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) Sr. No. Name of the Key management personnel Relatives of the Key management personnel 2. Ms. Vishakha Mulye • Mr. Vivek Mulye • Ms. Vriddhi Mulye • Mr. Vighnesh Mulye • Dr. Gauresh Palekar • Ms. Shalaka Gadekar • Dr. Nivedita Palekar 3. Mr. Anup Bagchi • Ms. Mitul Bagchi • Mr. Aditya Bagchi • Mr. Shishir Bagchi • Mr. Arun Bagchi • Late Mr. Animesh Bagchi 4. Mr. Sandeep Batra • Mr. Pranav Batra (w.e.f. December 23, 2020) • Ms. Arushi Batra • Mr. Vivek Batra • Ms. Veena Batra II. Transactions with related parties T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the significant transactions between the Bank and its
related parties.
224

--- Page 287 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Items Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Associates/joint ventures/others 146.4 - Recovery of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 2,194.3 1,683.3 Subsidiaries 1,874.1 1,631.8 Associates/joint ventures/others 320.2 51.5 Payment of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 82.1 156.4 Subsidiaries 82.1 156.4 Recovery for secondment of employees (net) 28.8 17.8 Subsidiaries 12.9 7.1 Associates/joint ventures/others 15.9 10.7 Reimbursement of expenses from related parties 84.9 1.7 Subsidiaries 1.9 1.7 Associates/joint ventures/others 83.0 - Interest expense 116.4 143.5 Subsidiaries 81.4 99.0 Associates/joint ventures/others 28.8 38.4 Key management personnel 4.8 5.6 Relatives of key management personnel 1.4 0.5 Remuneration to wholetime directors3 262.3 126.0 Key management personnel 262.3 126.0 Reimbursement of expenses to related parties 2,613.4 989.7 Subsidiaries 374.2 191.4 Associates/joint ventures/others 2,239.2 798.3 Insurance premium paid 10,189.9 8,899.9 Subsidiaries 7,537.2 8,899.9 Associates/joint ventures/others 2,652.7 - Brokerage, fee and other expenses 12,941.5 11,503.3 Subsidiaries 647.3 906.2 Associates/joint ventures/others 12,294.2 10,597.1 Dividend paid 2.4 - Key management personnel 2.4 - Relatives of key management personnel 0.0 - Purchase of investments 8,821.6 32,742.4 Subsidiaries 8,821.6 32,742.4 Investments in the securities issued by related parties 2,706.8 - Subsidiaries 2,706.8 - Sale of investments 20,477.8 16,692.8 Subsidiaries 18,967.1 16,692.8 Associates/joint ventures/others 1,510.7 - Redemption/buyback of investments 28,683.6 213.2 Subsidiaries 28,153.6 - 225

--- Page 288 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Items Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Associates/joint ventures/others 530.0 213.2 Purchase of loans 7,296.5 8,071.2 Subsidiaries 7,296.5 8,071.2 Purchase of unfunded risk participation 861.1 - Subsidiaries 861.1 - Purchase of fixed assets 4.8 6.9 Subsidiaries - 0.3 Associates/joint ventures/others 4.8 6.6 Sale of fixed assets - 0.4 Subsidiaries - 0.4
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. T he Bank undertakes derivative transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities. The
Bank manages its foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from these transactions by covering them in the market.
only the transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities and not the offsetting/
covering transactions.
3. E xcludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during
the period.
related parties. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a material related party transaction wherever
it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category.
226

--- Page 289 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Dividend income 1. ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 6,139.8 4,240.2 2. ICICI Securities Limited 5,980.9 3,712.9 3. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1,886.8 943.4 4. ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 1,813.5 3,189.0 Insurance claims received 1. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 719.5 264.5 2. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 146.4 51.3 Recovery of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 1. ICICI Bank UK PLC 473.2 315.7 2. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 369.2 351.4 3. ICICI Securities Limited 333.9 299.6 4. ICICI Bank Canada 286.6 217.3 5. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 281.5 265.4 Payment of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 1. ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited 41.8 76.9 2. ICICI Investment Management Company Limited 23.9 17.8 3. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 12.9 53.9 Recovery for secondment of employees (net) 1. I-Process Services (India) Private Limited 15.9 10.6 2. ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited 6.9 0.8 3. ICICI Securities Limited 5.0 6.7 Reimbursement of expenses from related parties 1. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 83.0 - 2. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 1.7 1.7 Interest expense 1. ICICI Securities Limited 71.8 84.9 2. ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 8.3 14.5 Remuneration to wholetime directors3 1. Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 70.5 3.84 2. Ms. Vishakha Mulye 63.6 54.6 3. Mr. Anup Bagchi 66.3 52.9 4. Mr. Sandeep Batra 61.9 14.7 Reimbursement of expenses to related parties 1. ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 2,239.2 798.3 2. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 353.8 145.6 Insurance premium paid 1. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 7,537.2 6,476.2 2. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 2,652.7 2,423.7 Brokerage, fee and other expenses 1. I-Process Services (India) Private Limited 8,450.3 6,402.6 2. ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 3,787.6 4,169.1 227

--- Page 290 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Dividend paid 1. Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 0.4 - 2. Ms. Vishakha Mulye 1.8 - 3. Mr. Sandeep Batra 0.2 - Purchase of investments 1. ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 7,945.8 28,230.9 Investments in the securities issued by related parties 1. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 2,706.8 - Sale of investments 1. ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 11,543.5 10,988.6 2. ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 7,319.8 3,803.6 Redemption/buyback of investments 1. ICICI Bank UK PLC 14,846.0 - 2. ICICI Bank Canada 13,307.6 - 3. ICICI Strategic Investment Fund 530.0 133.0 4. India Advantage Fund - III - 48.1 5. India Advantage Fund - IV - 32.1 Purchase of loans 1. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 6,766.5 8,071.2 Purchase of unfunded risk participation 1. ICICI Bank UK PLC 861.1 - Purchase of fixed assets 1. ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 3.1 - 2. Arteria Technologies Private Limited 1.7 6.6 Sale of fixed assets 1. ICICI Home Finance Company Limited - 0.4
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. T he Bank undertakes derivative transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities. The
Bank manages its foreign exchange and interest rate risks arising from these transactions by covering them in the market.
only the transactions with its subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures and other related entities and not the offsetting/
covering transactions.
3. E xcludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during
the period.
allowances and retirals for the year ended March 31, 2021 and was paid honorarium fee of ` 1/- for the year ended
March 31, 2021. Represents allowances and perquisites for the year.
228

--- Page 291 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) IV. Related party outstanding balances
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the balances payable to/receivable from related parties.
Subsidiaries 879.3 842.2
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. Excludes mark-to-market on outstanding derivative transactions.
3. A t March 31, 2022, 19,437,200 (March 31, 2021: 20,047,800) employee stock options for key management personnel were
outstanding. Excludes stock options granted to key management personnel, which are pending regulatory approvals.
with total exercise price of ` 394.2 million (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 228.8 million) were exercised by the key
management personnel.
229

--- Page 292 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) V. Related party maximum balances T he following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the maximum balances payable to/receivable from
related parties.
Subsidiaries 879.3 2,244.7
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. M aximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter end during the
financial year.
3. E xcludes mark-to-market on outstanding derivative transactions.
230

--- Page 293 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) VI. Letters of comfort T he Bank has issued letters of comfort on behalf of its banking subsidiary ICICI Bank UK PLC to Financial Services Authority, UK (now split into two separate regulatory authorities, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority) to confirm that the Bank intends to financially support ICICI Bank UK PLC
in ensuring that it meets all of its financial obligations as they fall due.
million). The aggregate amount of ` 1,315.7 million at March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: ` 1,268.8 million) is
included in the contingent liabilities.
business of Bharati AXA General Insurance Company Limited and transferring the same into ICICI Lombard
General Insurance Company Limited through a scheme of arrangement.
T he letters of indemnity are issued to IDBI Trusteeship Services Ltd (trustee of ICICI Strategic Investment Fund)
on behalf of ICICI Strategic Investment Fund to indemnify against any potential liabilities.
the Bank on behalf of its subsidiaries in respect of their borrowings made or proposed to be made, aggregated
to ` 16,226.7 million (March 31, 2021: ` 22,215.5 million).
behalf of its subsidiaries for other incidental business purposes. These letters of awareness are in the nature of
factual statements or confirmation of facts and do not create any financial impact on the Bank.
47. Details of amount transferred to The Depositor Education and Awareness Fund (the Fund) of RBI
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in amount transferred to the Fund.
48. Details of payment of DICGC insurance premium
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the payment of insurance premium and arrears.
2. Arrears in payment of DICGC premium - -
1. Excludes goods and service tax.
231

--- Page 294 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 49. Small and micro enterprises The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, details relating to enterprises covered under the Micro,
Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006.
non-compliance with directions issued by RBI on levy of penal charges on non-maintenance of minimum balance in
savings bank accounts dated November 20, 2014.
(A) Qualitative Disclosures
a) Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration.
Stock Option Scheme (ESOS) and deciding on the grant of the Bank’s stock options to employees and
WTDs of the Bank and its subsidiary companies.
232

--- Page 295 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) • E xternal consultants whose advice has been sought, the body by which they were commissioned, and in what areas of the remuneration process During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank employed the services of a reputed consulting firm
for market benchmarking in the area of compensation, including executive compensation.
including those in overseas branches of the Bank. In addition to the Bank’s Compensation Policy
guidelines, the overseas branches also adhere to relevant local regulations.
All employees of the Bank are governed by the Compensation Policy. The total number of permanent
employees of the Bank at March 31, 2022 was 103,010.
intended to drive performance within the framework of prudent risk management. This approach has
been incorporated in the Compensation Policy, the key elements of which are given below.
and equivalent positions and variable pay for employees, including senior management and key
management personnel.
time. Compensation of staff in audit, compliance and risk control functions is independent of the
business areas they oversee and depends on their performance assessment.
Compensation of Whole Time Directors/ Chief Executive Officers/ Material Risk Takers and Control
Function staff’ dated November 4, 2019.
Scheme and to align the policy with the RBI Circular dated April 26, 2021 on ‘Corporate Governance in
Banks - Appointment of Directors and Constitution of Committees of the Board’.
233

--- Page 296 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) • Process followed by the Bank to ensure that the risk and compliance employees are remunerated independently of the businesses they oversee The compensation of staff engaged in control functions like Audit, Risk and Compliance depends on their performance, which is based on achievement of the key goals of their respective functions. They
are not assessed on business targets.
c) Ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the remuneration processes.
and the limits framework. The Bank’s KPIs which are applicable to WTDs & equivalent positions as well
as employees (excluding control functions), incorporate relevant risk management related aspects.
organisational and individual performance and making compensation-related recommendations to
the Board.
and quantitative aspects including asset quality and provisioning, risk management framework,
stakeholder relationships, customer service and leadership development.
quality. The BGRNC takes into consideration all the above aspects while assessing organisational
performance and making compensation-related recommendations to the Board.
• T he nature and type of these measures that have changed over the past year and reasons for the
changes, as well as the impact of changes on remuneration.
The nature and type of these measures have not changed over the past year and hence, there is no
impact on remuneration.
and as a percentage of core operating profit), regulatory compliance, risk management processes,
stakeholder relationships, customer service and leadership development.
making compensation-related recommendations to the Board regarding the performance assessment
of WTDs and equivalent positions.
234

--- Page 297 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) • T he measures that the Bank will in general implement to adjust remuneration in the event that performance metrics are weak, including the Bank’s criteria for determining ‘weak’ performance metrics The Bank’s Compensation Policy outlines the measures the Bank will implement in the event of a reasonable evidence of deterioration in financial performance. Should such an event occur in the manner outlined in the policy, the BGRNC may decide to apply malus/clawback on none, part or all of the relevant variable compensation e) Ways in which the Bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of the longer term performance • The Bank’s policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and, if the fraction of variable remuneration that is deferred differs across employees or groups of employees, a description of the factors that determine the fraction and their relative importance The variable compensation is in the form of share-linked instruments (including stock options) or cash or a mix of cash and share-linked instruments (including stock options). The quantum of variable pay for an employee does not exceed a certain percentage (as stipulated in the compensation policy) of the total fixed pay in a year. The proportion of variable pay to total compensation is higher at senior levels and lower at junior levels. At least 50% of the compensation is variable for WTDs, CEO and
MRTs as a design. However, they can earn lesser variable pay based on various performance criteria.
For WTDs, CEO and MRTs, a minimum of 60% of the total variable pay is under deferral arrangement
(deferment). Additionally, at least 50% of the cash component of the variable pay is under deferment.
If the cash component is under ` 2.5 million, the deferment is not applicable.
divergence), variable pay already paid out may also be subjected to clawback arrangements, as
defined in the compensation policy.
management. PLRP aims to reward front line and junior managers, mainly on the basis of skill maturity
attained through experience and continuity in role which is a key differentiator for customer service.
management. The variable pay payout schedules are sensitive to the time horizon of risks as defined
in the policy.
The Bank ensures higher proportion of variable pay at senior levels and lower variable pay for front-
line staff and junior management levels.
235

--- Page 298 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) (B) Quantitative disclosures T he following table sets forth, for the period indicated, the details of quantitative disclosure for remuneration of
WTDs (including MD & CEO) and other Material Risk Takers.
7. Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration
Cash 211.1 N.A.
- Share-linked instruments (nos.) 12,187,480 9,127,500
9. T otal amount of reductions during the year due to ex-post N.A. N.A.
explicit adjustments6
10. Total amount of reductions during the year due to ex-post N.A. N.A.
236

--- Page 299 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) ` in million, except numbers Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 13. The mean pay for the bank as a whole (excluding sub-staff) and the deviation of the pay of each of its WTDs from the mean pay Mean pay of the bank7 755,429 704,035 Deviation - MD&CEO 59,094,291 3,455,855 Deviation - WTD1 54,049,788 50,085,768 Deviation - WTD2 54,788,776 47,547,650 Deviation - WTD3 51,573,500 46,536,300 1. I ncludes MD & CEO, WTDs and other Material Risk Takers (MRTs) based on the revised criteria given by RBI in its guideline dated November 4, 2019. Also includes WTDs transferred to group companies and who were paid bonus or stock options granted/vested during the year. Variable remuneration includes cash bonus and stock options based on the revised criteria
given by RBI in its guideline dated November 4, 2019 that are paid/ granted/ vested during the year.
and value of perquisites. The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to the Bank.The salaries for separated MRTs have been
considered for the period they were in service with the Bank.
3. V ariable and share-linked instruments represent amounts/ options awarded for the year ended March 31, 2020 and
March 31, 2021 respectively as per RBI approvals wherever applicable.
4. Includes options of WTDs who were transferred to group companies.
5. Includes outstanding options of WTDs who were transferred to group companies.
6. E xcludes ` 74.1 million (year ended March 31, 2021 : ` 74.1 million) variable pay to the former MD & CEO for past years
which has been directed for claw-back in respect of which the Bank has filed a recovery suit against the former MD & CEO.
contribution to provident fund, gratuity fund and value of perquisites. The value of perquisite is calculated as cost to
the Bank.
for MD & CEO and Executive Directors are pending approvals. Hence, for FY2022 also, remuneration paid/approved in
FY2021 has been considered.
non-executive/independent directors from April 1, 2021 and instead fixed remuneration is paid for the year
ended March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021 : ` 7.0 million profit related commission paid to non-executive directors).
The gross amount required to be spent by the Bank on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) related activities during
the year ended March 31, 2022 was ` 2,617.2 million (March 31, 2021: ` 1,845.3 million).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the amount spent by the Bank on CSR related activities.
Year ended March 31, 2022 Year ended March 31, 2021
Sr.
237

--- Page 300 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) As required under the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021, surplus of ` 139.9 million, arising out of CSR activities during the year ended March 31, 2022 has been transferred to unspent
CSR Account.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of related party transactions pertaining to CSR
related activities.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of movement in provision pertaining to CSR
related activities.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement of complaints received by the Bank from its
customers.
No. of complaints pending at the end of the year 10,401 30,096
1. Complaints do not include complaints redressed by the Bank within one working day.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of maintainable complaints received.
(other than those appealed) - -
1. Maintainable complaints are as per data received from RBI.
2. F or year ended March 31, 2022, 361 complaints (March 31, 2021: 500 complaints) were resolved based on advisories received
from BOs.
conciliation/mediation/advisories issued by BOs changed from 10,440 to 13,258. Accordingly, numbers for the year ended
March 31, 2021 are revised.
238

--- Page 301 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) The following table sets forth top five grounds of complaints received by the Bank from customers for the year
ended March 31, 2022.
as per RBI DBOD mailbox clarification dated October 9, 2007 on ‘Prudential Norms - Utilisation of Share Premium
Account’, banks can utilise share premium account for meeting the direct expenses relating to the issue of shares.
During the year ended March 31, 2022, the Bank has not utilised any amount (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 701.7
million) from securities premium for meeting the direct expenses relating to the issuance of equity shares.
The unclaimed dividend amount, due for transfer to the Investor Education and Protection Fund (IEPF) during the
year ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, has been transferred without any delay.
239

--- Page 302 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Accounts (Contd.) 56. Impact of Covid-19 on the performance of the Bank During the year ended March 31, 2021, the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in a nation-wide lockdown in April-May 2020 which substantially impacted economic activity. The subsequent easing of lockdown measures led to gradual improvement in economic activity and progress towards normalcy from the second half of financial year 2021. In the year ended March 31, 2022, India witnessed two more waves of the Covid-19 pandemic and the re-imposition of
localised/regional lock-down measures in certain parts of the country.
withdrawn most of the Covid-19 related restrictions, the future trajectory of the pandemic may have an impact on
the results of the Bank and the Group.
regulatory guidelines and clarifications in some critical areas of Ind AS application, which the Bank will need to
suitably incorporate in its implementation.
to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part
of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements.
whether, directly or indirectly lend or invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party
(“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
59. Comparative Figures
Figures of the previous year have been re-grouped to conform to the current year presentation.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 240

--- Page 303 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
To the Members of ICICI Bank Limited Report on the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Opinion 1. We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of ICICI Bank Limited (“the Holding Company” or “the Bank”), its subsidiaries (the Holding Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as “the Group”), and its associates, which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2022 and the consolidated profit and loss account, the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information (hereinafter
referred to as “the Consolidated Financial Statements”).
the Group and its associates as at 31 March 2022, of its consolidated profit, and its consolidated cash flows for the
year then ended.
consideration of audit reports of the other auditors referred to in the “Other Matters” paragraph below is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Financial Statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on
these matters.
241

--- Page 304 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.)
We have determined the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report.
Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
a. Identification and provisioning of non-performing advances (NPA):
Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2022: ` 9,203,081,390 (in ‘000s) Provision for NPA as at
31 March 2022: ` 269,105,264 (in ‘000s) of which Total Loans and Advances (Net of Provision) as at 31 March 2022:
` 8,590,204,390 (in ‘000s)* & Provision for NPA as at 31 March 2022: ` 263,638,822 (in ‘000s)* relates to Bank.
(Refer Schedule 9, Schedule 17(14))
* the amounts relating to the Bank are before consolidation adjustments including intercompany eliminations, if any.
The Reserve Bank of India’s (“RBI”) guidelines on Income Our audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
to have Board approved policy as per IRAC guidelines for
provision for NPA and valuation of security and collateral.
NPA identification and provision.
The provision on NPA is estimated based on ageing and provision carried by the Bank and verified the underlying
classification of NPAs, recovery estimates, nature of loan assumptions used by the Bank for such estimate.
is subject to the minimum provisioning norms specified
automated controls, reports and system reconciliations.
by RBI and approved policy of the Bank in this regard.
against NPAs by applying quantitative as well as
Board approved policy.
are not classified as NPA including advances to certain
amount as per extant IRAC norms and the Bank policy.
sectors and identified advances or group advances.
These are classified as contingency provisions. Performed other substantive procedures included and
not limited to the following:
its significance to the overall audit including possible independently as to whether those should be classified
observation by RBI which could result into disclosure in the as NPA.
 For samples selected, reviewed the collateral
and provisioning for NPAs as a key audit matter.
valuations, financial statements and other qualitative
information.
in RBI’s Central Repository of Information on Large
Credits (CRILC) to identify stress.
accounts that can potentially be classified as NPA and
Red flagged accounts.
242

--- Page 305 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit  Performed inquiries with the credit and risk departments to ascertain if there were indicators of stress or an occurrence of an event of default in a particular loan account or any product category which
needed to be considered as NPA.
 Examined the early warning reports generated by the
Bank to identify stressed loan accounts.
and the steps taken to mitigate the risks to identified
sectors.
relevant accounting standards and RBI requirements
relating to NPAs.
b. Evaluation of Litigations included in Contingent Liabilities:
As at 31 March 2022, the Group has reported ‘Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts’ of ` 89,527,688
(in ‘000s) (31 March 2021 – ` 88,166,723 (in ‘000s)), of which the following relate to the Bank:
(Refer Schedule 12 and Schedule 17(11))
The Bank has material open tax litigations including Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the
to determine the possible outcome of these disputes.
Bank’s key controls over the estimation, monitoring and
Significant management judgement is needed in disclosure of provisions and contingent liabilities.
a provision should be recognised as at the reporting
limited to the following:
needs to be disclosed as a contingent liability. Further, contingent liabilities pertaining to legal and taxation
significant judgements are also involved in measuring matters;
such obligations, the most significant of which are:
243

--- Page 306 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit  Assessment of Liability: Judgement is involved  Obtained a list of cases /matters in respect of which
in determination of whether outflow in respect of the litigations were outstanding as at reporting date:
• For significant legal matters, we sought
estimated reliably.
assumption and judgements used in estimation of assessment of outstanding litigations against
significant provisions; and the Bank;
from legal and independent tax consultants wherever and management’s grounds of appeals before the
considered necessary. relevant appellate authorities.
significant level of judgement in interpretation of law, we consideration with reference to the grounds presented
have included this as a key audit matter. therein and available independent legal / tax advice;
 Assessed the disclosures within the standalone
financial statements in this regard.
c. Information Technology (‘IT’) systems and controls impacting financial controls.
The Bank has a complex IT architecture to support Our Audit procedures with respect to this matter included:
and IT dependent manual controls, we involved IT
multiple applications.
The reliability and security of IT systems plays a key role in testing the accuracy of the information produced by the
the business operations of the Bank. Since large volume Bank’s IT systems.
was followed by process understanding, mapping of
manner.
applications to the same and understanding financial
Appropriate IT general controls and application controls risks posed by people-process and technology.
operating effectiveness of key controls operating over
consistently for reliable financial reporting.
244

--- Page 307 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Batch processing (including interface testing), incident management and data centre security), System interface controls. This included testing that requests for access to systems were appropriately logged, reviewed, and authorized. Also, entity level controls pertaining to policy and procedure and Business continuity plan assessment due impact of COVID-19 was also part of our audit
procedure.
observation, and re-performance. We also tested few
controls using negative testing technique.
where relevant, changes made to the IT landscape during
the audit period.
d. Valuation of Derivatives:
As at 31 March 2022, the Group has reported notional value of derivatives of ` 43,893,514,404 (in ‘000) (31 March 2021
– ` 28,765,529,351 (in ‘000s)), of which the following relate to the Bank:
(Refer Schedule 12.III, 12.VI, 12.VII and Schedule 17(17))
* the amounts relating to the Bank are before consolidation adjustments including intercompany eliminations, if any.
Derivatives are valued through models with external Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to,
inputs. The derivatives portfolio of the Bank primarily the following:
and transactions to hedge the Bank’s interest and foreign
over the valuation processes, including:
currency risk.
in the application of valuation techniques through which
validation.
financial statements, significant management estimates
inputs used.
such estimates and judgements, we have identified this
as a key audit matter for current year audit.
245

--- Page 308 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) The joint auditors of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, vide their audit report dated 16 April 2022, have expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, we have determined
the matters described below to be the key audit matters to be communicated in our report:
technology systems and controls to process and record systems and controls over financial reporting, which
large volume of transactions, such that there exists a included carrying out the following key audit procedures:
financial accounting and reporting systems (referred to
materially misstated.
remote basis which could result in increasing challenges computer operations i.e. job processing, data/ system
around the data protection. backup and incident management;
of the impact of the IT systems and related control and databases and related data security controls in
environment on the Company’s financial statements, remote working scenario due to COVID-19;
has been identified as a key audit matter for the current
access including privilege users and system changes;
year audit.
completeness and accuracy of data feeds and system
reconciliation controls;
information infrastructure, data and client information
management and monitoring and crisis management;
during the year or were changed after considering
controls around change management process.
* the amounts relating to ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited are before consolidation adjustments including
intercompany eliminations, if any.
The Company’s investment portfolio consists of Carried out the following key audit procedures:
and Shareholders investments. Total investment portfolio
controls on the valuation of investments;
represents 97 percent of the Company’s total assets as at
31 March 2022.
246

--- Page 309 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit Investments are valued in accordance with the provisions  Tested the design, implementation and operating of the Insurance Act, the IRDA Financial Statements effectiveness of key controls over the valuation Regulations, orders/ directions/ circulars issued by IRDAI process, including the Company’s assessment and and / or policies as approved by the Board of Directors of approval of assumptions used for valuation, including
the Company (collectively the “Accounting Policy”). key authorization and data input controls thereof;
(in ‘000s) are valued based on observable inputs as per to the Accounting Policy and the Company’s Board
their accounting policy and gains/losses are recognized in approved valuation policy;
prices and by agreeing the inputs which were used in
their materiality to the standalone financial statements.
the Company’s valuation techniques to external data;
tested Company’s assessment of impairment and
policy, based on which:
investment valuation process (including impairment
 Debt securities and unlisted equity shares are valued assessment).
at historical cost.
– 19 pandemic, which may impact the determination of
impairment of these investments.
one of the matter of most significance in the standalone
financial statements.
247

--- Page 310 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) The joint auditors of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, vide their audit report dated 21 April 2022, have expressed an unmodified opinion on the financial statements. Based on consideration of their report, we have
determined the matters described below to be key audit matters to be communicated in our report:
The company is highly dependent on its complex IT Key audit procedures included but were not limited to the
architecture comprising hardware, software, multiple following:
environment. Furthermore, conducted a risk assessment
transactions.
claims, commission expenses and investments among program change management, automated transaction
others. and interface controls. In particular:
could result in the financial accounting and reporting environment and key changes if any during the audit
records being materially misstated. period that may be relevant to the audit.
reporting. These controls contribute to mitigating risk of to ensure segregation of duties and appropriate
potential misstatements caused by fraud or errors. access rights.
application controls over key financial accounting and segregated from operation and moved to production
reporting systems. by appropriate users.
accuracy of data feeds, system reconciliation controls
and automated calculations.
assess the impact of observations and management’s
response if any on financial reporting.
Results of the tests has provided audit evidence which
have been used to draw conclusions including reporting.
248

--- Page 311 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit b. Investments of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
The Company’s investments represent 76.3% of the Audit procedures on Investments included the following:
to ensure proper classification and valuation of
extant regulatory guidelines.
Investment.
should be in line with IRDAI Investment Regulations and
related to these investments.
The Company has a policy framework for Valuation and
investments.
criteria set out in the investment policy of the Company. Regulations along with Company’s own investment
Further, the assessment of impairment involves significant policy.
management judgment.
The classification and valuation of these investments was agencies and assessing the risk of impairments to
considered one of the matters of material significance in various investments.
 Reviewed the Company’s impairment policy and
value of investments to the financial statements.
assessed the adequacy of its impairment charge on
investments outstanding at the year end.
impairment, valuation and classification of investments in
its financial statements in all material respects to be fair.
(Bharti Axa), whereby, the Insurance undertaking of precedents and applicable regulatory provisions along
Bharti Axa is demerged and merged with the Company with treatment as prescribed in the Scheme of Demerger.
from the Appointed Date i.e. 1 April 2020 had received Audit procedures include following:
 Reviewed of annual financial statement of demerged
September 2021.
certified by an independent accountant of demerged
undertaking.
249

--- Page 312 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) Key Audit Matter How the matter was addressed in our audit The necessary accounting entries to record the transaction  Reviewed proposed accounting entries and have been recorded during the year as required under the disclosures made in the notes to accounts and tied applicable accounting standards. various amounts with underlying financial information
of demerged undertaking.
accounting and disclosure treatment of the Scheme
and its compliance with Accounting Standard 14:
Accounting for Amalgamations (AS-14).
 Read the minutes of meeting of Board of Directors, its
Committees, and Members of the Company.
on accounts of use of applications / systems of
demerged undertaking.
Results of the tests has provided audit evidence which
have been used to draw conclusions including reporting.
and our auditor’s report thereon) which we obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, and Annual Report,
which is expected to be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements does not cover the other information and we do not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have
nothing to report in this regard.
communicate the matter to those charged with governance under SA 720 ‘The Auditor’s responsibilities Relating to
Other Information’.
250

--- Page 313 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) for maintenance of adequate accounting records in accordance with the provisions of the Act and the RBI Guidelines, for safeguarding of the assets of the Group and of its associates and for preventing and detecting frauds and other irregularities; selection and application of appropriate accounting policies; making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and design, implementation and maintenance of adequate internal financial controls, that were operating effectively for ensuring the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error which have been used for the purpose of preparation of the
Consolidated Financial Statements by the Management and directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
unless the management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but
to do so.
The respective Board of Directors of the companies included in the Group and of its associates are responsible for
overseeing the financial reporting process.
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism
throughout the audit. We also:
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
our opinion on whether the Holding Company has adequate internal financial controls with reference to the
Consolidated Financial Statements and the operating effectiveness of such controls.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the management.
conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future
events or conditions may cause the Group and its associates to cease to continue as a going concern.
the disclosures, and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements represent the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
251

--- Page 314 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) • O btain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group and its associates to express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of the financial statements of such entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements of which we are the independent auditors. For the other entities included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been audited by other auditors, such other auditors remain responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the audits carried out by them. We remain
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal
control that we identify during our audit.
requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
liability exists in the standalone financial statements of the Company’. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this
matter based on the opinion expressed by the joint statutory auditors of ICICI Life.
PDR contained in the standalone financial statements of the Company’. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this
matter based on the opinion expressed by the joint statutory auditors of ICICI General.
252

--- Page 315 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) adjustments) and total net cash flows of ` 11,735,662 (in ‘000s) respectively for the year ended 31 March 2022, which have been audited by their respective independent auditors. The consolidated financial Statement includes the Group’s share of net profit of ` 6,103,826 (in ‘000s) (before consolidation adjustments) for year ended 31 March 2022 in respect of three associates whose financial statements have not been audited by us. These financial statements have been audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to us by the management and our opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements, in so far as it relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these subsidiaries and associates, and our report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act, in so far as it relates to the
aforesaid subsidiaries and associates, is based solely on the reports of the other auditors.
of these subsidiaries and associates and our report in terms of section 143(3) of the Act in so far as it relates to the
aforesaid subsidiaries and associates, is based solely on such unaudited financial statements / financial information.
In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us by the Management, these financial
statements / financial information are not material to the Group.
below, is not modified in respect of the above matters with respect to our reliance on the work done and the reports
of the other auditors and the financial statements / financial information certified by the management.
whose report dated 24 April 2021 expressed an unmodified opinion on those statements. Our opinion is not modified
in respect of this matter.
13. The consolidated balance sheet and the profit and loss account have been drawn up in accordance with the provisions
of section 29 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and section 133 of the Act.
other auditors on separate financial statements and other financial information of the subsidiaries and associates, we
report, to the extent applicable, that:
a. We have sought and obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief
were necessary for the purposes of our audit of the aforesaid consolidated financial statements.
Financial Statements have been kept so far as it appears from our examination of those books and the reports of
the other auditors.
flow dealt with by this report are in agreement with the relevant books of account maintained for the purpose of
preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
under Section 133 of the Act and relevant rules thereunder, to the extent they are not inconsistent with the
guidelines prescribed by RBI.
253

--- Page 316 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) e. On the basis of the written representations received from the directors of the Holding Company as on 31 March 2022 taken on record by the Board of Directors of the Holding Company and the reports of the statutory auditors of its subsidiary companies, associate companies incorporated in India, none of the directors of the Group companies, its associate companies incorporated in India are disqualified as on 31 March 2022 from being
appointed as a director in terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
of the Holding Company, its subsidiary companies, associate companies incorporated in India and the operating
effectiveness of such controls, refer to our separate report in “Annexure A”.
given to us and based on the consideration of audit reports of other auditors on separate financial statements of such
subsidiaries, associates, as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph:
consolidated financial position of the Group, its associates. (Refer Schedule 12, Schedule 17(11) and Schedule
18(6) to the Consolidated Financial Statements).
such items as it relates to the Group, and its associates and the Group’s share of net profit/loss in respect of
its associates.
Protection Fund by the Holding Company and its subsidiary companies, associate companies incorporated in
India during the year ended 31 March 2022.
its subsidiaries and its associates which are incorporated in India (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide any
guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
based solely on the reports of the auditors of such companies. Our opinion is not modified in respect of the
matters with respect to our reliance on the work done by and on the reports of the other auditors.
254

--- Page 317 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT (Contd.) e. In our opinion and according to the information and explanations given to us, the dividend declared and / or paid
during the year the Group is in compliance with Section 123 of the Act.
197 of the Act and whether any excess remuneration has been paid in accordance with the aforesaid section, is
not applicable.
Membership No.: 118580 Membership No.: 117348
UDIN: 22118580AHQXEQ6615 UDIN: 22117348AHQYVX9526
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai Date: 23 April 2022 Date: 23 April 2022 255

--- Page 318 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
ANNEXURE A
to the Independent Auditors’ report on the Consolidated Financial Statements of ICICI Bank Limited for the year ended 31 March 2022 (Referred to in paragraph “14(f)” under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements’ section of our report of even date) Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid Consolidated Financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) Opinion 1. In conjunction with our audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements of ICICI Bank Limited as of and for the year ended 31 March 2022, we have audited the internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements of ICICI Bank Limited (“the Holding Company”) and its subsidiary companies and its associate companies,
which are companies incorporated in India, as of that date.
Internal Financial Controls Over Financial Reporting issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (“the
Guidance Note”).
detection of frauds and errors, the accuracy and completeness of the accounting records, and the timely preparation
of reliable financial information, as required under the Act.
internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements were established and maintained
and if such controls operated effectively in all material respects.
including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the Consolidated Financial Statements, whether
due to fraud or error.
of their reports referred to in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
256

--- Page 319 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements ANNEXURE A (Contd.) necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect
on the financial statements.
financial controls with reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
financial statements does not include reporting on the design and operating effectiveness of the management’s
internal controls over the valuation and accuracy of the aforesaid actuarial valuation’.
valuation are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries of India
in concurrence with the IRDAI.
does not include reporting on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal financial controls over the
valuation and accuracy of the aforesaid actuarial liabilities’.
solely on the reports of the auditors of such companies. Our opinion is not modified in respect of the matters with
respect to our reliance on the work done by and on the reports of the other auditors.
subsidiary companies and one associate company, which are companies incorporated in India, is based on the
corresponding reports of the auditors of such subsidiaries and associates incorporated in India.
Membership No.: 118580 Membership No.: 117348
UDIN: 22118580AHQXEQ6615 UDIN: 22117348AHQYVX9526
Place: Mumbai Place: Mumbai Date: 23 April 2022 Date: 23 April 2022 257

--- Page 320 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
at March 31, 2022 ` in ‘000s At At Schedule 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Capital 1 13,899,662 13,834,104 Employees stock options outstanding 2,664,141 31,010 Reserves and surplus 2 1,803,961,070 1,562,009,891 Minority interest 2A 59,808,935 95,883,393 Deposits 3 10,913,657,932 9,599,400,180 Borrowings 4 1,616,026,828 1,438,999,393 Liabilities on policies in force 2,288,271,963 2,031,800,413 Other liabilities and provisions 5 828,083,306 996,164,062 TOTAL CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES 17,526,373,837 15,738,122,446
ASSETS
Cash and balances with Reserve Bank of India 6 602,287,069 463,022,049 Balances with banks and money at call and short notice 7 1,228,972,763 1,012,683,253 Investments 8 5,670,977,180 5,365,786,165 Advances 9 9,203,081,390 7,918,013,918 Fixed assets 10 106,054,107 108,092,581 Other assets 11 713,988,010 869,447,777 Goodwill on consolidation 1,013,318 1,076,703
TOTAL ASSETS 17,526,373,837 15,738,122,446
Contingent liabilities 12 45,523,411,167 30,213,442,288 Bills for collection 752,325,958 548,463,817 Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 258

--- Page 321 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
for the year ended March 31, 2022 ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended Schedule 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
I. INCOME
Interest earned 13 954,068,654 891,626,638 Other income 14 621,294,514 720,295,282
TOTAL INCOME 1,575,363,168 1,611,921,920
II. EXPENDITURE
Interest expended 15 411,666,711 426,590,874 Operating expenses 16 731,517,275 762,716,696 Provisions and contingencies (refer note 18.6) 174,340,856 220,417,554
TOTAL EXPENDITURE 1,317,524,842 1,409,725,124
III. PROFIT/(LOSS)
Net profit for the year (before share in profit of associates 257,838,326 202,196,796 and minority interest) Add: Share of profit in associates 7,544,279 1,442,857 Net profit for the year before minority interest 265,382,605 203,639,653 Less: Minority interest 14,281,645 19,796,467 Net profit after minority interest 251,100,960 183,843,186 Profit brought forward 385,155,990 267,999,958
TOTAL PROFIT/(LOSS) 636,256,950 451,843,144
IV. APPROPRIATIONS/TRANSFERS
Transfer to Statutory Reserve 58,349,000 40,482,000 Transfer to/(from) Reserve Fund - (77,638) Transfer to Capital Reserve 15,742,037 1,302,300 Transfer to Capital Redemption Reserve - - Transfer to/(from) Investment Reserve Account - - Transfer to/(from) Investment Fluctuation Reserve 3,828,798 (2,495,799) Transfer to Special Reserve 15,328,500 10,943,500 Transfer to/(from) Revenue and other reserves 657,420 16,532,790 Dividend paid during the year 13,852,335 - Balance carried over to balance sheet 528,498,860 385,155,990
TOTAL 636,256,950 451,843,144
Significant accounting policies and notes to accounts 17 & 18 Earnings per share (refer note 18.1) Basic (`) 36.21 27.26 Diluted (`) 35.44 26.83 Face value per share (`) 2.00 2.00
The Schedules referred to above form an integral part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 259

--- Page 322 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the year ended March 31, 2022 ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 Cash flow from/(used in) operating activities Profit/(loss) before taxes 335,675,367 240,486,799
Adjustments for:
(i) 455,757,552 398,588,721
Adjustments for:
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
(A)+(B)+(C)+(D) 361,141,446 197,176,085
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,475,705,302 1,278,529,217 Less: Reduction due to discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General (5,586,916) - Insurance Company Limited from consolidation during the year Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 1,831,259,832 1,475,705,302 1. For the year ended March 31, 2021, includes gain on sale of a part of equity investment in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited.
2. Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and short notice.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 260

--- Page 323 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 1 - CAPITAL
Authorised capital 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2021: 12,500,000,000 equity shares of ` 2 each) 25,000,000 25,000,000 Equity share capital Issued, subscribed and paid-up capital 6,915,992,387 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2021: 6,472,765,203 equity shares) 13,831,985 12,945,530 Add: 32,778,988 equity shares of ` 2 each (March 31, 2021: 443,227,184 equity shares) issued during the period1 65,558 886,455 13,897,543 13,831,985 Add: Forfeited equity shares2 2,119 2,119
TOTAL CAPITAL 13,899,662 13,834,104
1. R epresents equity shares issued pursuant to exercise of employee stock options. (March 31, 2021: 418,994,413 equity shares issued
under Qualified Institutions Placement (QIP) and 24,232,771 equity shares issued pursuant to exercise of employee stock options.
2. On account of forfeiture of 266,089 equity shares of ` 10 each.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 2 - RESERVES AND SURPLUS
I. Statutory reserve Opening balance 297,687,519 257,205,519 Additions during the year 58,349,000 40,482,000 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 356,036,519 297,687,519 II. Special reserve Opening balance 118,649,500 107,706,000 Additions during the year 15,328,500 10,943,500 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 133,978,000 118,649,500 III. Securities premium Opening balance 489,694,731 335,899,406 Additions during the year1 7,950,327 154,497,014 Deductions during the year2 - (701,689) Closing balance 497,645,058 489,694,731 IV. Investment reserve account Opening balance - - Additions during the year - - Deductions during the year - - Closing balance - - V. Investment fluctuation reserve3 Opening balance 16,886,201 19,382,000 Additions during the year 3,828,798 - Deductions during the year - (2,495,799) Closing balance 20,714,999 16,886,201 VI. Unrealised investment reserve4 Opening balance (56,658) (270,042) Additions during the year - 243,797 Deductions during the year (301,983) (30,413) Closing balance (358,641) (56,658) VII. Capital reserve Opening balance 134,042,316 132,740,016 Additions during the year5,6 15,742,037 1,302,300 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance7 149,784,353 134,042,316 261

--- Page 324 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 VIII. Capital redemption reserve Opening balance 3,500,000 3,500,000 Additions during the year - - Deductions during the year - - Closing balance 3,500,000 3,500,000 IX. Foreign currency translation reserve Opening balance 13,699,874 20,139,947 Additions during the year 599,449 607,130 Deductions during the year (1,867,892) (7,047,203) Closing balance 12,431,431 13,699,874 X. Revaluation reserve Opening balance 31,252,824 31,433,597 Additions during the year8 1,742,847 499,560 Deductions during the year9 (710,696) (680,333) Closing balance 32,284,975 31,252,824 XI. Reserve fund Opening balance - 77,638 Additions during the year10 - - Deductions during the year10 - (77,638) Closing balance - - XII. Revenue and other reserves Opening balance 71,497,594 40,804,026 Additions during the year11, 12 20,297,813 30,834,944 Deductions during the year12 (2,839,545) (141,376) Closing balance13,14 88,955,862 71,497,594 XIII. Balance in profit and loss account6,10 528,498,860 385,155,990 Deductions during the year15 (19,510,346) - Balance in profit and loss account 508,988,514 385,155,990 TOTAL RESERVES AND SURPLUS 1,803,961,070 1,562,009,891 1. Includes ` 7,923.3 million (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 5,257.4 million) on exercise of employee stock options. At March 31, 2021,
includes ` 149,162.0 million on account of equity shares issued under QIP.
2. Represents amount utilised towards direct expenses relating to the issuance of equity shares under QIP.
net profit for the period less mandatory appropriations is required to be transferred to IFR, until the amount of IFR is at least 2% of the
HFT and AFS portfolio.
4. Represents unrealised profit/(loss) pertaining to the investments of venture capital funds.
5. I ncludes appropriations made by the Bank for profit on sale of investments in held-to-maturity category, net of taxes and transfer to
Statutory Reserve and profit on sale of land and buildings, net of taxes and transfer to Statutory Reserve.
Reserve. Accordingly, an amount of ` 15,091.1 million was transferred by the Bank from Balance in Profit and Loss account to Capital
Reserve during FY2022.
7. I ncludes capital reserve on consolidation amounting to ` 79.1 million (March 31, 2021: ` 79.1 million).
8. Represents gain on revaluation of premises carried out by the Bank and ICICI Home Finance Company Limited.
9. R epresents amount transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve on account of incremental depreciation charge on
revaluation, revaluation surplus on premises sold and loss on revaluation on account of certain assets which were held for sale.
10. A t March 31, 2021 balance in reserve fund created by Sri Lanka branch was transferred to balance in profit and loss account due to
its closure.
11. Includes ` 1,543.1 million towards reduction in fair value change account (March 31, 2021: addition amounting to ` 5,754.2 million) of
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited.
12. Includes ` 2,471.4 million towards reduction in fair value change account (March 31, 2021: addition amounting to ` 4,808.7 million) of
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited.
13. I ncludes unrealised profit/(loss), net of tax, of ` 206.4 million (March 31, 2021: ` 347.1 million) pertaining to the investments in the
available-for-sale category of ICICI Bank UK PLC.
14. I ncludes reduction of ` 133.1 million in debenture redemption reserve (March 31, 2021: ` 143.8 million) of ICICI Lombard General
Insurance Company Limited.
15. R epresents reduction due to discontinuation of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company from consolidation during the year.
262

--- Page 325 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 2A - MINORITY INTEREST
Opening minority interest 95,883,393 67,947,696 Subsequent increase/(decrease) during the year1 (36,074,458) 27,935,697
CLOSING MINORITY INTEREST 59,808,935 95,883,393
1. A t March 31, 2022, includes deduction of minority interest relating to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited amounting
to ` 39,052.5 million, subsequent to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited being accounted as an associate.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 3 - DEPOSITS
A. I. Demand deposits i) From banks 79,321,836 114,515,967 ii) From others 1,554,865,124 1,278,323,752 II. Savings bank deposits 3,670,305,566 3,039,179,239 III. Term deposits i) From banks 71,532,495 96,198,935 ii) From others 5,537,632,911 5,071,182,287
TOTAL DEPOSITS 10,913,657,932 9,599,400,180
B. I. Deposits of branches in India 10,527,203,264 9,223,157,524 II. Deposits of branches/subsidiaries outside India 386,454,668 376,242,656
TOTAL DEPOSITS 10,913,657,932 9,599,400,180
` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 4 - BORROWINGS
I. Borrowings in India i) Reserve Bank of India1 - 1,000,000 ii) Other banks 50,892,853 48,045,578 iii) Other institutions and agencies a) Government of India - - b) Financial institutions2 323,264,820 378,775,309 iv) Borrowings in the form of a) Deposits 31,004,597 35,194,448 b) Commercial paper 90,353,072 42,187,893 c) Bonds and debentures (excluding subordinated debt) 430,564,188 229,521,286 v) Application money-bonds - - vi) Capital instruments a) Innovative Perpetual Debt Instruments (IPDI) 66,950,000 101,200,000 (qualifying as additional Tier 1 capital) b) Hybrid debt capital instruments issued as bonds/debentures - - (qualifying as Tier 2 capital) c) Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds 93,504,927 92,707,554 (subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital) TOTAL BORROWINGS IN INDIA 1,086,534,457 928,632,068 263

--- Page 326 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 II. Borrowings outside India i) Capital instruments Unsecured redeemable debentures/bonds (subordinated debt included in Tier 2 capital) 5,529,406 5,564,832 ii) Bonds and notes 181,504,693 186,163,655 iii) Other borrowings 342,458,272 318,638,838 TOTAL BORROWINGS OUTSIDE INDIA 529,492,371 510,367,325
TOTAL BORROWINGS 1,616,026,828 1,438,999,393
1. Represents borrowings made by the Bank under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF).
2. Includes borrowings made by the Bank under repo and refinance.
under collateralised borrowing and lending obligation, market repurchase transactions (including tri-party repo) with banks and
financial institutions and transactions under liquidity adjustment facility and marginal standing facility.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 5 - OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS
I. Bills payable 130,686,122 128,480,835 II. Inter-office adjustments (net) 4,418,106 3,262,618 III. Interest accrued 27,524,211 24,830,180 IV. Sundry creditors 206,506,321 368,178,007 V. General provision for standard assets 44,586,271 40,042,593 VI. Others (including provisions)1,2 414,362,275 431,369,829 TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES AND PROVISIONS 828,083,306 996,164,062 1. I ncludes contingency provision of the Bank amounting to ` 74,500.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 74,750.0 million), including Covid-19
related provision of ` 64,250.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 74,750.0 million).
2. Includes specific provision for standard loans made by the Bank.
264

--- Page 327 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 SCHEDULE 7 - BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT
NOTICE
I. In India i) Balances with banks a) In current accounts 2,150,158 2,921,504 b) In other deposit accounts 58,739,519 41,875,163 ii) Money at call and short notice a) With banks1 494,020,000 352,190,000 b) With other institutions2 58,284,515 38,968,857
TOTAL 613,194,192 435,955,524
II. Outside India i) In current accounts 332,048,410 318,835,630 ii) In other deposit accounts 179,630,804 199,063,472 iii) Money at call and short notice 104,099,357 58,828,627
TOTAL 615,778,571 576,727,729
TOTAL BALANCES WITH BANKS AND MONEY AT CALL AND SHORT NOTICE 1,228,972,763 1,012,683,253
1. Includes lending by the Bank under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF).
2. Includes lending by the Bank under reverse repo.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 8 - INVESTMENTS
I. Investments in India [net of provisions] i) Government securities 3,255,021,732 2,847,433,181 ii) Other approved securities - - iii) Shares (includes equity and preference shares) 131,221,761 170,963,971 iv) Debentures and bonds (including commercial paper and certificate of deposits) 415,992,085 564,663,020 v) Assets held to cover linked liabilities of life insurance business 1,508,663,020 1,385,491,431 vi) Cost of equity investment in associates1,2 20,040,640 6,725,850 vii) Others (mutual fund units, pass through certificates, security receipts and other related investments)3 134,270,515 141,960,832 TOTAL INVESTMENTS IN INDIA 5,465,209,753 5,117,238,285 II. Investments outside India [net of provisions] i) Government securities 152,078,246 193,166,090 ii) Others (equity shares, bonds and certificate of deposits) 53,689,181 55,381,790 TOTAL INVESTMENTS OUTSIDE INDIA 205,767,427 248,547,880
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 5,670,977,180 5,365,786,165
265

--- Page 328 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021 A. Investments in India Gross value of investments4 5,486,621,394 5,126,563,887 Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 21,411,641 9,325,602 Net investments 5,465,209,753 5,117,238,285 B. Investments outside India Gross value of investments 208,954,192 249,941,929 Less: Aggregate of provision/depreciation/(appreciation) 3,186,765 1,394,049 Net investments 205,767,427 248,547,880
TOTAL INVESTMENTS 5,670,977,180 5,365,786,165
1. Includes goodwill on consolidation of associates amounting to ` 221.9 million (March 31, 2021: ` 163.1 million).
2. A t March 31, 2022 includes cost of investment pertaining to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited subsequent to ICICI
Lombard General Insurance Company Limited being accounted as an associate.
3. I ncludes share in networth of associates as per equity method as prescibed by AS 23.
4. I ncludes net appreciation amounting to ` 244,271.4 million (March 31, 2021: ` 219,153.1 million) on investments held to cover linked
liabilities of life insurance business.
iii) Term loans 6,377,809,697 5,698,743,423
TOTAL ADVANCES 9,203,081,390 7,918,013,918
B. i) Secured by tangible assets (includes advances against book debts)2 6,701,716,660 5,823,869,908 ii) Covered by bank/government guarantees 185,673,079 112,777,379 iii) Unsecured 2,315,691,651 1,981,366,631
TOTAL ADVANCES 9,203,081,390 7,918,013,918
C. I. Advances in India i) Priority sector 2,491,680,887 2,031,797,475 ii) Public sector 483,782,406 451,897,529 iii) Banks 432,346 264,743 iv) Others 5,417,164,764 4,646,071,474 TOTAL ADVANCES IN INDIA 8,393,060,403 7,130,031,221 II. Advances outside India i) Due from banks 7,165,905 9,923,766 ii) Due from others a) Bills purchased and discounted 175,464,049 78,351,968 b) Syndicated and term loans 235,061,192 347,539,208 c) Others 392,329,841 352,167,755 TOTAL ADVANCES OUTSIDE INDIA 810,020,987 787,982,697
TOTAL ADVANCES 9,203,081,390 7,918,013,918
1. Net of bills re-discounted amounting to Nil (March 31, 2021: Nil).
2. Includes advances against book debts amounting to ` 703,802.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 632,355.0 million).
266

--- Page 329 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 10 - FIXED ASSETS
I. Premises Gross block At cost at March 31 of preceding year 95,782,081 94,289,893 Additions during the year1 3,334,955 1,891,104 Deductions during the year3 (4,771,209) (398,916) Closing balance 94,345,827 95,782,081 Depreciation At March 31 of preceding year 21,854,971 19,790,481 Charge during the year2 2,375,067 2,347,909 Deductions during the year3 (716,027) (283,419) Total depreciation 23,514,011 21,854,971 Net block 70,831,816 73,927,110 II. Other fixed assets (including furniture and fixtures) Gross block At cost at March 31 of preceding year 97,137,491 85,814,990 Additions during the year 15,252,194 15,086,502 Deductions during the year4 (13,604,745) (3,764,001) Closing balance 98,784,940 97,137,491 Depreciation At March 31 of preceding year 66,259,069 58,967,593 Charge during the year 10,737,093 10,918,958 Deductions during the year4 (10,178,853) (3,627,482) Total depreciation 66,817,309 66,259,069 Net block4 31,967,631 30,878,422 III. Lease assets Gross block At cost at March 31 of preceding year 17,735,221 17,054,049 Additions during the year 155,525 681,172 Deductions during the year - - Closing balance5 17,890,746 17,735,221 Depreciation At March 31 of preceding year 14,448,172 14,314,282 Charge during the year 187,914 133,890 Deductions during the year - - Total depreciation, accumulated lease adjustment and provisions 14,636,086 14,448,172 Net block 3,254,660 3,287,049
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 106,054,107 108,092,581
1. I ncludes revaluation gain amounting to ` 1,742.8 million (March 31, 2021: ` 499.6 million) on account of revaluation carried out by
the Bank and its housing finance subsidiary.
2. I ncluding depreciation charge on account of revaluation of ` 703.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31,
2021: ` 680.3 million).
pertaining to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited subsequent to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited
being accounted as an associate.
` 5,996.3 million pertaining to ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited subsequent to ICICI Lombard General Insurance
Company Limited being accounted as an associate.
5. Includes assets taken on lease by the Bank amounting to ` 1,176.1 million (March 31, 2021: ` 1,020.6 million).
267

--- Page 330 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Balance Sheet (Contd.) ` in ‘000s At At 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 11 - OTHER ASSETS
I. Inter-office adjustments (net) - - II. Interest accrued 108,389,915 110,626,009 III. Tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) 26,241,723 50,249,503 IV. Stationery and stamps 337,907 178,896 V. Non-banking assets acquired in satisfaction of claims1,2 - - VI. Advance for capital assets 4,460,876 3,426,107 VII. Deposits 40,100,556 28,023,381 VIII. Deferred tax asset (net) (refer note 18.9) 79,484,847 93,350,216 IX. Deposits in Rural Infrastructure and Development Fund 264,194,161 311,777,207 X. Others 190,778,025 271,816,458
TOTAL OTHER ASSETS 713,988,010 869,447,777
1. D uring the year ended March 31, 2022 the Bank has not acquired any assets (year ended March 31, 2021: Nil) in satisfaction of claims under debt-asset swap transactions. Assets amounting to ` 563.6 million were sold by the Bank during the year ended March 31,
2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 942.4 million).
2. Net of provision held by the Bank amounting to ` 29,011.8 million (March 31, 2021: ` 29,575.4 million).
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 12 - CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
I. Claims against the Group not acknowledged as debts 89,527,688 88,166,723 II. Liability for partly paid investments 7,009,157 10,625,388 III. Liability on account of outstanding forward exchange contracts1 10,757,369,659 8,303,455,988 IV. Guarantees given on behalf of constituents a) In India 877,490,076 811,429,157 b) Outside India 158,594,796 182,653,703 V. Acceptances, endorsements and other obligations 458,778,736 321,874,588 VI. Currency swaps1 502,108,785 485,717,363 VII. Interest rate swaps, currency options and interest rate futures1 32,634,035,960 19,976,356,000 VIII. Other items for which the Group is contingently liable 38,496,310 33,163,378 TOTAL CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 45,523,411,167 30,213,442,288
1. Represents notional amount.
268

--- Page 331 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 13 - INTEREST EARNED
I. Interest/discount on advances/bills 668,865,377 602,616,872 II. Income on investments (including dividend) 219,906,420 232,642,538 III. Interest on balances with Reserve Bank of India and other inter-bank funds 18,195,960 18,817,238 IV. Others1,2 47,100,897 37,549,990
TOTAL INTEREST EARNED 954,068,654 891,626,638
1. Includes interest on income tax refunds amounting to ` 2,434.3 million (March 31, 2021: ` 2,569.7 million).
2. Includes interest and amortisation of premium on non-trading interest rate swaps and foreign currency swaps.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 14 - OTHER INCOME
I. Commission, exchange and brokerage 172,883,870 140,230,546 II. Profit/(loss) on sale of investments (net)1 23,145,295 81,257,186 III. Profit/(loss) on revaluation of investments (net) 1,981,586 (1,433,237) IV. Profit/(loss) on sale of land, buildings and other assets (net)2 56,635 (63,424) V. Profit/(loss) on exchange/derivative transactions (net) 29,933,143 19,721,169 VI. Premium and other operating income from insurance business 389,595,741 479,230,586 VII. Miscellaneous income (including lease income) 3,698,244 1,352,456
TOTAL OTHER INCOME 621,294,514 720,295,282
1. F or the year ended March 31, 2021 includes gain on sale of a part of equity investment in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
Limited, ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited.
2. Includes profit/(loss) on sale of assets given on lease.
31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 15 - INTEREST EXPENDED
I. Interest on deposits 336,132,833 337,196,585 II. Interest on Reserve Bank of India/inter-bank borrowings 4,402,009 12,001,131 III. Others (including interest on borrowings of erstwhile ICICI Limited) 71,131,869 77,393,158
TOTAL INTEREST EXPENDED 411,666,711 426,590,874
269

--- Page 332 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account (Contd.) ` in ‘000s Year ended Year ended 31.03.2022 31.03.2021
SCHEDULE 16 - OPERATING EXPENSES
I. Payments to and provisions for employees1 123,416,025 110,509,051 II. Rent, taxes and lighting2 14,085,917 13,829,516 III. Printing and stationery 2,232,877 2,067,614 IV. Advertisement and publicity 23,313,796 29,981,392 V. Depreciation on property 13,112,160 13,266,867 VI. Depreciation (including lease equalisation) on leased assets 187,914 133,877 VII. Directors' fees, allowances and expenses 123,496 125,453 VIII. Auditors' fees and expenses 219,598 295,992 IX. Law charges 1,707,140 2,076,875 X. Postages, courier, telephones, etc. 7,092,062 5,884,269 XI. Repairs and maintenance 26,994,748 21,785,244 XII. Insurance 13,025,817 9,893,192 XIII. Direct marketing agency expenses 25,697,664 18,938,669 XIV. Claims and benefits paid pertaining to insurance business 59,037,802 98,926,518 XV. Other expenses pertaining to insurance business3 339,724,982 371,586,730 XVI. Other expenditure4 81,545,277 63,415,437
TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES 731,517,275 762,716,696
1. F or the year ended March 31, 2022, includes impact of ` 2,642.2 million for the Bank due to change in accounting policy from intrinsic value method to fair value method for all stock options granted after March 31, 2021 under the Bank’s Employee Stock Option
Scheme.
2. I ncludes lease expense amounting to ` 11,389.0 million (March 31, 2021: ` 11,087.3 million).
3. I ncludes commission expenses and reserves for actuarial liabilities (including the investible portion of the premium on the unit-linked
policies).
4. I ncludes expenses on purchase of Priority Sector Lending Certificates (PSLC) for the Bank amounting to ` 13,206.1 million (March 31,
2021: ` 7,813.8 million).
270

--- Page 333 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts
SCHEDULE 17
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Overview ICICI Bank Limited, together with its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (collectively, the Group), is a diversified financial services group providing a wide range of banking and financial services including commercial banking, retail banking, project and corporate finance, working capital finance, insurance, venture capital and private equity, investment
banking, broking and treasury products and services.
ICICI Bank Limited (the Bank), incorporated in Vadodara, India is a publicly held banking company governed by the Banking
Regulation Act, 1949.
Principles of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include the financials of ICICI Bank, its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
control is not to obtain economic benefit from their activities. All significant inter-company accounts and transactions are
eliminated on consolidation.
subsidiary and became associate of the Bank and accordingly has been accounted as per the equity method as prescribed
by AS 23 on ‘Accounting for investments in Associates in Consolidated Financial Statements.
consolidated financial statements and the reported income and expenses during the reporting period. Management
believes that the estimates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and reasonable.
Actual results could differ from these estimates. The impact of any revision in these estimates is recognised prospectively
from the period of change.
271

--- Page 334 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The consolidated financial statements include the results of the following entities in addition to the Bank.
1. I CICI Securities Holding Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Securities Limited. ICICI Securities Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary
of ICICI Securities Holding Inc.
2. I CICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance
Company Limited.
3. T hese entities have been accounted as per the equity method as prescribed by AS 23 on ‘Accounting for Investments in Associates
in Consolidated Financial Statements’.
4. From April 1, 2021, ICICI General ceased to be a subsidiary and became an associate of the Bank.
272

--- Page 335 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
Comm Trade Services Limited has not been consolidated under AS 21, since the investment is temporary in nature.
Falcon Tyres Limited, in which the Bank holds 26.39% equity shares has not been accounted as per equity method under
AS 23, since the investment is temporary in nature.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
1. Translation of foreign currency items The consolidated financial statements of the Group are reported in Indian rupees (`), the national currency of India. Foreign currency income and expenditure items of domestic operations are translated at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the transaction. Income and expenditure items of integral foreign operations (representative offices) are translated at daily closing rates, and income and expenditure items of non-integral foreign operations
(foreign branches, offshore banking units, foreign subsidiaries) are translated at quarterly average closing rates.
exchange rates notified by Foreign Exchange Dealers’ Association of India (FEDAI) relevant to the balance sheet date
and the resulting gains/losses are recognised in the profit and loss account.
cumulative/proportionate amount of such exchange differences as income or expenses, which relate to repatriation
of accumulated retained earnings from overseas operations, in the profit and loss account.
Contingent liabilities on account of guarantees, endorsements and other obligations denominated in foreign
currencies are disclosed at the closing exchange rates notified by FEDAI relevant to the balance sheet date.
the case of non-performing assets (NPAs) where it is recognised upon realisation, as per the income recognition
and asset classification norms of RBI/NHB/other applicable guidelines.
b) Income on discounted instruments is recognised over the tenure of the instrument.
c) Dividend income is accounted on an accrual basis when the right to receive the dividend is established.
d) Loan processing fee is accounted for upfront when it becomes due except in the case of foreign banking
subsidiaries, where it is amortised over the period of the loan.
e) Project appraisal/structuring fee is accounted for on the completion of the agreed service.
f) Arranger fee is accounted for as income when a significant portion of the arrangement is completed and right
to receive is established.
g) Commission received on guarantees and letters of credit issued is amortised on a straight-line basis over the
period of the guarantee/letters of credit.
h) Fund management and portfolio management fees are recognised on an accrual basis.
i) The annual/renewal fee on credit cards,debit cards and prepaid cards are amortised on a straight line basis over
one year.
j) All other fees are accounted for as and when they become due where the Group is reasonably certain of
ultimate collection.
k) Fees paid/received for priority sector lending certificates (PSLC) is amortised on straight-line basis over the
period of the certificate.
273

--- Page 336 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
l) Income from securities brokerage activities is recognised as income on the trade date of the transaction.
Brokerage income in relation to public or other issuances of securities is recognised based on mobilisation and
terms of agreement with the client.
charges and other charges, if any, are recovered from the linked funds in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the policy and are recognised when due.
estimates that are progressively actualised on receipt of information. For installment cases, premium is recorded
on installment due dates. Reinstatement premium is recorded as and when such premiums are recovered.
over the balance policy period. Any subsequent revisions to premium as and when they occur are recognised
over the remaining period of risk or contract period, as applicable.
the original premium over the balance term of the policy. Any subsequent revisions to premium as and when
they occur are recognised on the same basis as the original premium over the balance term of the policy.
policies are cancelled. Adjustments to premium income for corrections to area covered under crop insurance
are recognised in the period in which the information is confirmed by the concerned government/nodal agency.
and any additional accrual is recognised on confirmation from reinsurers. Such commission is combined with
commission on reinsurance ceded.
terms of the relevant treaties/arrangements with the reinsurer/insurer. Profit commission on reinsurance ceded
is netted off against premium ceded on reinsurance.
274

--- Page 337 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) year simultaneously along with the recognition of the insurance premium in accordance with the reinsurance arrangements with the reinsurers. Any subsequent revision to premium ceded is recognised in the period of such revision. Adjustment to reinsurance premium arising on cancellation of policies is recognised in the period in which the policies are cancelled. Adjustments to reinsurance premium for corrections to area covered under
crop insurance are recognised simultaneously along with related premium income.
at a segmental revenue account level. The premium deficiency is calculated and duly certified by the
Appointed Actuary.
3. Stock based compensation
The following entities within the group have granted stock options to their employees:
shares to wholetime directors and employees of the Bank and its subsidiaries. The options granted vest in a graded
manner and may be exercised within a specified period.
using intrinsic value method. Under Intrinsic value method, options cost is measured as the excess, if any, of the fair
market price of the underlying stock over the exercise price on the grant date.
date and the inputs used in the valuation model include assumptions such as the expected life of the share option,
volatility, risk free rate and dividend yield.
The cost of stock options is recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period.
Insurance Company, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited and ICICI Securities Limited, immediately
prior to the grant date.
The banking subsidiaries namely, ICICI Bank UK and ICICI Bank Canada, account for the cost of the options granted
to employees by ICICI Bank using the fair value method as followed by the Bank.
1961 and as per Accounting Standard 22 - Accounting for Taxes on Income respectively. Deferred tax adjustments
comprise changes in the deferred tax assets or liabilities during the year and change in tax rate.
275

--- Page 338 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The impact of changes in the deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in the profit and loss account.
there is unabsorbed depreciation or carried forward loss under taxation laws, deferred tax assets are recognised
only if there is virtual certainty of realisation of such assets.
In the consolidated financial statements, deferred tax assets and liabilities are computed at an individual entity level
and aggregated for consolidated reporting.
sheet date and writes down the carrying amount to the extent there is no longer convincing evidence to the effect
that the Group will pay normal income tax during the specified period.
the Appointed/Panel Actuary of the entity. The actuarial estimate is derived in accordance with relevant IRDAI
regulations and Guidance Note GN 21 issued by the Institute of Actuaries of India.
In the case of life insurance business, benefits paid comprise policy benefits and claim settlement costs, if any. Death
and rider claims are accounted for on receipt of intimation. Survival and maturity benefits are accounted when due.
accounted for in the period in which the claim is intimated. Repudiated claims and other claims disputed before the
judicial authorities are provided for on prudent basis as considered appropriate by the management.
and regulations notified by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India and Actuarial Practice
Standards of the Institute of Actuaries of India.
276

--- Page 339 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) calculated on a daily pro-rata basis, except in the case of marine hull business which is computed at 100.00% of net
premium written on all unexpired policies at balance sheet date.
of profits to shareholders. These assumptions are determined as prudent estimates at the date of valuation with
allowances for adverse deviations.
The liability for the unexpired portion of the risk for the non-unit liabilities of linked business and attached riders is
the higher of liability calculated using discounted cash flows and unearned premium reserves.
The unit liability in respect of linked business has been taken as the value of the units standing to the credit of
policyholders, using the Net Asset Value (NAV) prevailing at the valuation date.
An unexpired risk reserve and a reserve in respect of claims incurred but not reported are created, for one year
renewable group term insurance.
The interest rates used for valuing the liabilities are in the range of 3.67% to 6.30% per annum (previous year –
3.13% to 5.56% per annum).
assurances and LIC 96-98 table for annuities, adjusted to reflect expected experience while morbidity rates used are
based on CIBT 93 table, adjusted for expected experience, or on risk rates supplied by reinsurers.
improvements but with an allowance for any expected worsening. Per policy renewal expenses for regular premium
policies are assumed to inflate at 4.59% per annum (previous year – 4.22%).
policies for new cars and new two wheelers sold on or after September 1, 2018 commission is expensed at the
applicable rates on the premium allocated for the year.
countries. The Group makes contribution to recognised trusts which administer the funds on their own account or
through insurance companies.
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method. The actuarial gains or losses arising during the
year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
277

--- Page 340 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Funds Management Company have accrued for superannuation liability based on a percentage of basic salary
payable to eligible employees for the period of service.
employees are given an option to receive the amount in cash in lieu of such contributions along with their monthly
salary during their employment.
are recognised in the profit and loss account. The Group has no liability towards future benefits under superannuation
fund and national pension scheme other than its annual contribution.
dearness relief on a monthly basis to these employees on their retirement based on the respective employee’s years
of service with the Bank and applicable salary.
valuation of pension liability is calculated based on certain assumptions regarding rate of interest, salary growth,
mortality and staff attrition as per the projected unit credit method.
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Employees covered by the pension plan are not eligible for employer’s contribution under the provident fund plan.
Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952 to Employees’ Pension Scheme administered by the Regional
Provident Fund Commissioner and the balance contributions are transferred to funds administered by trustees.
The funds are invested according to the rules prescribed by the Government of India. The Group recognises such
contribution as an expense in the year in which it is incurred.
Government under the Employees Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952. Actuarial valuation for
the interest obligation on the provident fund balances is determined by an actuary appointed by the Group.
The actuarial gains or losses arising during the year are recognised in the profit and loss account.
respective government schemes as per local regulatory guidelines. The contribution made by the overseas branches
is recognised in profit and loss account at the time of contribution.
Compensated absences
The Group provides for compensated absences based on actuarial valuation conducted by an independent actuary.
278

--- Page 341 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) date, supplemented by experience of similar transactions. These are reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current management estimates. In cases where the available information indicates that the loss on the contingency is reasonably possible but the amount of loss cannot be reasonably estimated, a disclosure to this effect is made in the consolidated financial statements. In case of remote possibility, neither provision nor disclosure is made in the consolidated financial statements. The Group does not account for or disclose contingent
assets, if any.
valuation is determined based on certain assumptions regarding mortality rate, discount rate, cancellation rate and
redemption rate.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, balances with RBI, balances with other banks and money at call and
short notice.
i) Investments of the Bank are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification
and valuation.
government of India and state government securities where settlement date method of accounting is
followed in accordance with RBI guidelines.
b. All investments are classified into ‘Held to Maturity’ (HTM), ‘Available for Sale’ (AFS) and ‘Held for Trading’
(HFT) on the date of purchase as per the extant RBI guidelines on investment classification and valuation.
the investments are further categorised as (a) government securities, (b) other approved securities, (c) shares,
(d) bonds and debentures and (e) others.
c. Investments that are held principally for resale within 90 days from the date of purchase are classified as
HFT securities. Investments which the Bank intends to hold till maturity are classified as HTM securities.
Investments which are not classified in either of the above categories are classified under AFS securities.
broken period interest (the amount of interest from the previous interest payment date till the date of
purchase of instruments) on debt instruments are charged to the profit and loss account.
depreciation on securities acquired by way of conversion of outstanding loans is fully provided for. Non-
performing investments are identified based on the RBI guidelines.
face value. Any premium over the face value of fixed rate and floating rate securities acquired is amortised
over the remaining period to maturity on a constant yield basis and straight line basis respectively.
Dealers Association of India (PDAI) jointly with Fixed Income Money Market and Derivatives Association
(FIMMDA)/Financial Benchmark India Private Limited (FBIL), periodically.
279

--- Page 342 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) h. The market/fair value of unquoted government securities which are in the nature of Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) securities included in the ‘AFS’ and ‘HFT’ categories is as per the rates published by FBIL. The valuation of other unquoted fixed income securities, including Pass Through Certificates, wherever linked to the Yield- to-Maturity (YTM) rates, is computed with a mark-up (reflecting associated credit risk) over the YTM rates for government securities published by FIMMDA. The sovereign foreign securities and non-INR India linked
bonds are valued on the basis of prices published by the sovereign regulator or counterparty quotes.
i. Treasury bills, commercial papers and certificate of deposits being discounted instruments, are valued at
carrying cost.
fund. Unquoted equity shares are valued at the break-up value, if the latest balance sheet is available, or at
`1, as per RBI guidelines.
outstanding and not redeemed as at the end of the resolution period are treated as loss assets and are fully
provided for.
net of taxes and transfer to statutory reserve is transferred to “Capital Reserve” in accordance with the
RBI Guidelines.
guidelines. The short positions are categorised under HFT category and are marked-to-market. The mark-to-
market loss is charged to profit and loss account and gain, if any, is ignored as per RBI guidelines.
n. Market repurchase, reverse repurchase and transactions with RBI under Liquidity Adjustment Facility (LAF)
are accounted for as borrowing and lending transactions in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines.
subsequent recoveries are recorded through the profit and loss account. Subscription to/purchase of investments
are accounted at the cost of acquisition inclusive of brokerage, commission and stamp duty.
securities classified by primary dealership subsidiary as held-to-maturity, as permitted by RBI, are carried at
amortised cost. Appropriate provision is made for other than temporary diminution in the value of investments.
Commission earned in respect of securities acquired upon devolvement is reduced from the cost of acquisition.
iv) The Bank’s housing finance subsidiary classifies its investments as current investments and long-term investments.
280

--- Page 343 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) long-term investments, which are carried at their acquisition cost or at amortised cost, if acquired at a premium over the face value. Any premium over the face value of the securities acquired is amortised over the remaining period to maturity on a constant yield basis. However, a provision for diminution in value is made to recognise any
other than temporary decline in the value of such long-term investments.
loss on investment in ‘HFT’/Fair Value Through Profit and Loss’ (FVTPL) category is accounted directly in the profit
and loss account. Investments in ‘HTM’/’amortised cost’ category are carried at amortised cost.
1938 (amended by the Insurance Laws (Amendment) Act, 2015), the IRDA (Investment) Regulations, 2016, and
various other circulars/notifications issued by the IRDAI in this context from time to time.
In the case of life insurance business, valuation of investments (other than linked business) is done on the
following basis:
stated at historical cost, subject to amortisation of premium or accretion of discount over the period of
maturity/holding on a constant yield basis.
b. Listed equity shares and equity exchange traded funds(ETF) are stated at fair value being the last quoted
closing price on the National Stock Exchange (NSE) (or BSE, in case the investments are not listed on NSE).
c. Mutual fund units are valued based on the previous day’s net asset value.
taken to ’Revenue and other reserves’ and ‘Liabilities on policies in force’ in the balance sheet for Shareholders’
fund and Policyholders’ fund respectively for life insurance business.
In the case of general insurance business, valuation of investments is done on the following basis:
as ‘held to maturity’ and accordingly stated at amortised cost determined after amortisation of premium or
accretion of discount on a constant yield basis over the holding/maturity period.
last quoted closing price on the NSE and in case these are not listed on NSE, then based on the last quoted
closing price on the BSE.
c. Mutual fund investments (other than venture capital fund) are stated at fair value, being the closing net asset
value at balance sheet date.
d. Investments other than mentioned above are valued at cost.
shares and mutual fund units are taken to ’Revenue and other reserves’ in the balance sheet for general
insurance business.
may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the carrying value of such investment is reduced to its
recoverable amount and the impairment loss is recognised in the revenue(s)/profit and loss account.
The previously impaired loss is also reversed on disposal/realisation of securities and results thereon
are recognised.
The total proportion of investments for which subsidiaries have applied accounting policies different from the
Bank as mentioned above, is approximately 19.93% of the total investments at March 31, 2022.
281

--- Page 344 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 14. Provisions/write-offs on loans and other credit facilities i) Loans and other credit facilities of the Bank are accounted for in accordance with the extant RBI guidelines as
given below:
overseas branches that are identified as impaired as per host country regulations but which are standard as per the
extant RBI guidelines, are classified as NPAs to the extent of amount outstanding in the respective host country.
In accordance with the RBI circular dated April 17, 2020, the moratorium granted to certain borrowers is excluded
from the determination of number of days past-due/out-of-order status for the purpose of asset classification.
Further, NPAs are classified into sub-standard, doubtful and loss assets based on the criteria stipulated by RBI.
Interest on non-performing advances is transferred to an interest suspense account and not recognised in profit
and loss account until received.
plan of certain loans. The borrowers where resolution plan was implemented under these guidelines are classified
as standard restructured.
specific provisions on non-performing retail loans and advances held by the Bank are higher than the minimum
regulatory requirements.
borrowers classified as non-cooperative borrowers or willful defaulters, the Bank makes accelerated provisions
as per RBI guidelines.
loans and advances in accordance with RBI directions, including RBI direction for provision on accounts referred
to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016.
due to diminution in the fair value of restructured/rescheduled loans and advances is made in accordance with the
applicable RBI guidelines.
Non-performing and restructured loans are upgraded to standard as per the extant RBI guidelines or host country
regulations, as applicable.
In terms of RBI guideline, the NPAs are written-off in accordance with the Bank’s policy. Amounts recovered
against bad debts written-off are recognised in the profit and loss account.
282

--- Page 345 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
companies and provision on incremental exposure to borrowers identified as per RBI’s large exposure framework.
For performing loans and advances in overseas branches, the general provision is made at higher of aggregate
provision required as per host country regulations and RBI requirement.
exposure. If the country exposure (net) of the Bank in respect of each country does not exceed 1% of the total
funded assets, no provision is required on such country exposure.
been implemented within the timelines prescribed by the RBI from the date of default. These additional provisions
are written-back on satisfying the conditions for reversal as per RBI guidelines.
contingency provision in the books. The Bank also makes additional contingency provision on certain standard
assets. The contingency provision is included in ‘Other Liabilities and Provisions’.
nature and for making specific provision for impaired loans as per the requirement of extant RBI guidelines or any
regulatory guidance/instructions. The floating provision is netted-off from advances.
Depreciation/provision on non-performing investments is made based on the RBI guidelines.
specific non-performing assets over and above what is stated above, if in the opinion of management, increased
provisions are necessary. General provision on restructured loans is made as per RBI guidelines.
impairment losses is maintained at a level that management considers adequate to absorb identified credit related
losses as well as losses that have occurred but have not yet been identified.
which there is no significant increase in credit risk since origination, is computed using 12-month probability
of default (PD), and represents the lifetime cash shortfalls that will result if a default occurs in next 12 months.
have occurred. The allowance for credit losses for impaired financial assets is computed based on individual
assessment of expected cash flows from such assets.
The total proportion of loans for which subsidiaries have applied accounting policies different from the Bank as
mentioned above, is approximately 6.71% of the total loans at March 31, 2022.
283

--- Page 346 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 15. Transfer and servicing of assets The Bank transfers commercial and consumer loans through securitisation transactions. The transferred loans are de-recognised and gains/losses are accounted for, only if the Bank surrenders the rights to benefits specified in the
underlying securitised loan contract. Recourse and servicing obligations are accounted for net of provisions.
and loss account on completion of transaction. The Bank accounts for any loss arising from securitisation immediately
at the time of sale.
The unrealised gains, associated with expected future margin income is recognised in profit and loss account on
receipt of cash, after absorbing losses, if any.
from sale of loan assets through direct assignment is accounted through profit and loss account on completion
of transaction.
The acquired loans is carried at acquisition cost. In case premium is paid on a loan acquired, premium is amortised
over the loan tenure.
shortfall of sale value over the net book value on sale of such assets is recognised by the Bank in the year in which the
loan is sold.
standards. It continues to recognise the mortgages securitised as “Loans and Advances” and the amounts received
through securitisation are recognised as “Other borrowings”.
domestic group companies is based on past experience and expectation of usage, which for some categories of fixed
assets, is different from the useful life as prescribed in Schedule II to the Companies Act, 2013.
Assets purchased/sold during the year are depreciated on a pro-rata basis for the actual number of days the asset has
been capitalised.
profit on sale of premises by the Bank is appropriated to capital reserve, net of transfer to Statutory Reserve and taxes,
in accordance with RBI guidelines.
to revised asset values. In case of premises, which are carried at revalued amounts, the depreciation on the excess of
revalued amount over historical cost is transferred from Revaluation Reserve to General Reserve annually.
284

--- Page 347 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Non-banking assets Non-banking assets (NBAs) acquired in satisfaction of claims are valued at the market value on a distress sale basis or value of loan, whichever is lower. Further, the Bank creates provision on these assets as per the extant RBI guidelines
or specific RBI directions.
the contract as interest income/expense. All other outstanding forward exchange contracts are revalued based on the
exchange rates notified by FEDAI for specified maturities and at interpolated rates for contracts of interim maturities.
exchange rates implied by the swap curves in respective currencies. The resultant gains or losses are recognised in
the profit and loss account.
and loss Account except in the case of the Bank’s overseas banking subsidiaries. Gains or losses arising from hedge
ineffectiveness, if any, are recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.
hedges, changes in the fair value of effective portion of the cash flow hedge are taken to ‘Revenue and other reserves’
and ineffective portion, if any, are recognised in the profit and loss account.
which remain overdue for more than 90 days and mark-to-market gains on other derivative contracts with the same
counter-parties are reversed through the profit and loss account.
revalued assets is considered to be close to its revalued amount. Accordingly, separate assessment for impairment of
premises is not required.
an asset may be impaired. Impairment loss, if any, is provided in the profit and loss account to the extent the carrying
amount of assets exceeds their estimated recoverable amount.
285

--- Page 348 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 19. Lease transactions Lease payments including cost escalations for assets taken on operating lease are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account over the lease term on straight line basis. The leases of property, plant and equipment, where
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Bank are classified as finance lease.
Minimum lease payments under finance lease are apportioned between the finance costs and outstanding liability.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the net profit or loss after tax for the year attributable to equity
shareholders by the weighted average number of equity shares outstanding for the year.
number of equity shares and dilutive potential equity shares issued by the group outstanding during the year, except
where the results are anti-dilutive.
as commission at the time of sales to the customers. The Bank also deals in bullion on a borrowing and lending basis
and the interest expense/income is accounted on accrual basis.
22. Share issue expenses
Share issue expenses are deducted from Share Premium Account in terms of Section 52 of the Companies Act, 2013.
286

--- Page 349 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
SCHEDULE 18
NOTES FORMING PART OF THE ACCOUNTS
The following additional disclosures have been made taking into account the requirements of Accounting Standards
(ASs) and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines in this regard.
computed using the weighted average number of equity shares and weighted average number of dilutive potential
equity shares outstanding during the year.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the computation of earnings per share.
Diluted weighted average number of equity shares outstanding 7,075,943,848 6,841,860,856
1. The dilutive impact is due to options granted to employees by the Group.
The Group has transactions with its related parties comprising associates/other related entities and key management
personnel and relatives of key management personnel.
1. F rom April 1, 2021, ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited ceased to be a subsidiary and became an associate
of the Bank.
287

--- Page 350 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Key management personnel Sr. Relatives of the Key management Name of the Key management personnel No. personnel 1. Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi • Ms. Mona Bakhshi • Mr. Shivam Bakhshi • Ms. Esha Bakhshi • Ms. Minal Bakhshi • Mr. Ashwin Pradhan • Mr. Ritwik Thakurta • Mr. Sameer Bakhshi • Ms. Radhika Bakhshi 2. Ms. Vishakha Mulye • Mr. Vivek Mulye • Ms. Vriddhi Mulye • Mr. Vighnesh Mulye • Dr. Gauresh Palekar • Dr. Nivedita Palekar • Ms. Shalaka Gadekar 3. Mr. Anup Bagchi • Ms. Mitul Bagchi • Mr. Aditya Bagchi • Mr. Shishir Bagchi • Mr. Arun Bagchi • Late Mr. Animesh Bagchi 4. Mr. Sandeep Batra • Mr. Pranav Batra (w.e.f. December 23, 2020) • Ms. Arushi Batra • Mr. Vivek Batra • Ms. Veena Batra (w.e.f. December 23, 2020) II. Transactions with related parties The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the significant transactions between the Group and its
related parties.
288

--- Page 351 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Particulars Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Income from custodial services 0.1 0.1 Associates/others 0.1 0.1 Insurance premium received 75.8 54.1 Associates/others 67.1 16.1 Key management personnel 3.5 32.6 Relatives of key management personnel 5.2 5.4 Insurance claims received 146.6 - Associates/others 146.6 - Gain/(loss) on forex and derivative transactions (net) 36.6 - Associates/others 36.6 - Dividend income 1,993.3 106.5 Associates/others 1,993.3 106.5 Recovery of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 353.3 51.4 Associates/others 353.3 51.4 Payment of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 0.8 - Associates/others 0.8 - Recovery of secondment of employees 15.9 10.6 Associates/others 15.9 10.6 Interest expense 199.0 45.5 Associates/others 192.2 38.4 Key management personnel 4.8 5.6 Relatives of key management personnel 2.0 1.5 Remuneration to wholetime directors2 267.6 132.3 Key management personnel 267.6 132.3 Reimbursement of expenses to the Group 83.0 - Associates/others 83.0 - Reimbursement of expenses to related parties 2,239.2 798.3 Associates/others 2,239.2 798.3 Insurance premium paid 3,222.4 - Associates/others 3,222.4 - Insurance claims paid 42.6 4.9 Associates/others 42.1 3.9 Key management personnel 0.5 0.4 Relatives of key management personnel - 0.6 Brokerage, fee and other expenses 12,297.3 10,652.5 Associates/others 12,297.3 10,652.5 Donation given 486.4 304.0 Associates/others 486.4 304.0 Dividend paid 2.5 4.4 Key management personnel 2.5 1.4 Relatives of key management personnel 0.0 3.0 Purchase of investments 1,766.5 - Associates/others 1,766.5 - 289

--- Page 352 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Particulars Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Investments in the securities issued by related parties 1,000.0 4,250.0 Associates/others 1,000.0 4,250.0 Sale of investments 8,286.9 - Associates/others 8,286.9 - Redemption/buyback of investments - 858.2 Associates/others - 858.2 Purchase of fixed assets 4.8 6.6 Associates/others 4.8 6.6
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. E xcludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during
the period.
related parties. A specific related party transaction is disclosed as a material related party transaction wherever
it exceeds 10% of all related party transactions in that category.
290

--- Page 353 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Particulars Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Recovery of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 314.6 - 2 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 38.7 51.4 Payment of lease of premises, common corporate and facilities expenses 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 0.8 - Recovery of secondment of employees 1 I-Process Services (India) Private Limited 15.9 10.6 Interest expense 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 163.6 - 2 ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 8.3 14.5 3 Arteria Technologies Private Limited 7.0 5.3 4 NIIT Institute of Finance, Banking and Insurance Training Limited 5.5 5.5 5 India Infradebt Limited 0.8 10.8 Remuneration to wholetime directors2 1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi3 73.7 10.14 2 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 63.6 54.6 3 Mr. Anup Bagchi 66.3 52.9 4 Mr. Sandeep Batra3,5 64.0 14.7 Reimbursement of expenses to the Group 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 83.0 - Reimbursement of expenses to related parties 1 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 2,239.2 798.3 Insurance premium paid 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 3,222.4 - Insurance claims paid 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 42.1 - 2 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth - 3.8 3 Dr. Gauresh Palekar - 0.6 Brokerage, fee and other expenses 1 I-Process Services (India) Private Limited 8,450.4 6,402.6 2 ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited 3,790.0 4,224.5 Donation given 1 ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth 486.4 304.0 Dividend paid 1 Mr. Sandeep Bakhshi 0.4 0.2 2 Ms. Vishakha Mulye 1.8 1.1 3 Mr. Anup Bagchi 0.1 0.0 4 Mr. Sandeep Batra 0.2 - 5 Ms. Esha Bakhshi 0.0 0.7 6 Ms. Minal Bakhshi 0.0 0.7 7 Mr. Shivam Bakhshi 0.0 1.7 291

--- Page 354 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Particulars Year ended Year ended March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Purchase of investments 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 1,766.5 - Investments in the securities issued by related parties 1 India Infradebt Limited 1,000.0 4,250.0 Sale of Investments 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 6,776.2 - 2 India Infradebt Limited 1,510.7 - Redemption/buyback of investments 1 India Advantage Fund - III - 110.2 2 India Advantage Fund - IV - 147.9 3 India Infradebt Limited - 600.0 Purchase of fixed assets 1 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 3.1 - 2 Arteria Technologies Private Limited 1.7 6.6
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. E xcludes the perquisite value on employee stock options exercised and includes performance bonus paid during the
period.
3. I ncludes remuneration received from ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited relating to the period of his service
with that company.
allowances and retirals for the year ended March 31, 2021 and was paid honorarium fee of ` 1/- for the year ended
March 31, 2021. Includes allowances and perquisites for the year.
5. Mr. Sandeep Batra was appointed as executive director with effect from December 23, 2020.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the outstanding balances payable to/receivable from
related parties.
292

--- Page 355 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) ` in million At At Items March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Advances by the Group 267.1 289.2 Associates/others 127.7 42.8 Key management personnel 139.1 246.2 Relatives of key management personnel 0.3 0.2 Receivables 1,927.9 334.6 Associates/others 1,927.9 334.6 Guarantees issued by the Group 59.0 50.7 Associates/others 59.0 50.7
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
personnel were outstanding. Excludes stock options granted to key management personnel, which are pending regulatory
approvals.
total exercise price of ` 394.2 million (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 228.8 million) were exercised by the key management
personnel.
4. A t March 31, 2022: 536,600 (March 31, 2021: 536,600) employee stock options of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company
Limited to key management personnel were outstanding.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the maximum balances payable to/receivable from
related parties.
Relatives of key management personnel 1.9 1.3
1. 0.0 represents insignificant amount.
2. M aximum balance is determined based on comparison of the total outstanding balances at each quarter end during the
financial year.
293

--- Page 356 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 3. Employee Stock Option Scheme (ESOS)
ICICI Bank:
of vesting of options as may be determined by the Board Governance, Remuneration & Nomination Committee to
be applicable for future grants.
on April 30, 2019. Options granted in January 2018 vested at the end of four years from the date of grant. Certain
options granted in May 2018, vested to the extent of 50% on May 2021 and balance 50% would vest on May 2022.
in September 2011 vested in a graded manner over a five-year period with 15%, 20%, 20% and 45% of grant vesting
each year, commencing from the end of 24 months from the date of the grant.
six months ended October 28, 2010. Of these options granted, 50% vested on April 30, 2014 and the balance 50%
vested on April 30, 2015.
The weighted average fair value, based on Black-Scholes model, of options granted during the year ended March 31,
2022 was ` 227.75 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 125.44).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of
options granted.
294

--- Page 357 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) exercise behavior of the employees who receive the option. Expected exercise behavior is estimated based on the historical stock option exercise pattern of the Bank. Expected volatility during the estimated expected term of the option is based on historical volatility determined based on observed market prices of the Bank’s publicly traded equity
shares. Expected dividends during the estimated expected term of the option are based on recent dividend activity.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the summary of the status of the Bank’s stock option plan.
Options exercisable 177,170,739 264.69 177,136,942 247.45
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2022.
800-899 19,000 810.25 6.92
The following table sets forth, the summary of stock options outstanding at March 31, 2021.
The options were exercised regularly throughout the period and weighted average share price as per National Stock
Exchange price volume data during the year ended March 31, 2022 was `703.14 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 437.92).
295

--- Page 358 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
ICICI Life:
ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company has formulated ESOS for their employees. There is no compensation cost
for the year ended March 31, 2022 based on the intrinsic value of options.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of the status of the stock option plan of ICICI
Prudential Life Insurance Company.
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company
at March 31, 2022.
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company at
March 31, 2021.
296

--- Page 359 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
ICICI General:
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company has formulated ESOS for their employees. There was no compensation
cost for the year ended March 31, 2021 based on the intrinsic value of options.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of the status of the stock option plan of
ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company.
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company
at March 31, 2021.
1100 - 1300 2,526,300 1,235.15 4.1
ICICI Securities:
ICICI Securities Limited has formulated ESOS for their employees. There is no compensation cost for the year ended
March 31, 2022 based on the intrinsic value of options.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, a summary of the status of the stock option plan of
ICICI Securities Limited.
297

--- Page 360 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.)
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Securities Limited at March 31, 2022.
750-799 6,300 774.60 7.30
The following table sets forth, summary of stock options outstanding of ICICI Securities Limited at March 31, 2021.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the movement in software acquired by the Group, as
included in fixed assets.
5.1 Assets taken under operating lease
Operating leases primarily comprise office premises which are renewable at the option of the Group.
(i) The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of liability for premises taken on non-
cancellable operating leases.
Total 2,750.3 2,412.0
The terms of renewal are those normally prevalent in similar agreements and there are no undue restrictions in the agreements.
(ii) Total of non-cancellable lease payments recognised in the profit and loss account for the year is
` 993.4 million (Year ended March 31, 2021 ` 1,198.2 million).
298

--- Page 361 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 5.2 Assets taken under finance lease
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of assets taken on finance leases.
5.3 Assets given under finance lease
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of finance leases.
299

--- Page 362 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Maturity profile of present value of lease rentals The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the details of maturity profile of present value of finance
lease receipts.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of provisions and contingencies included in
the profit and loss account.
1. N et of write-back of Covid-19 related provision by the Bank amounting to ` 10,500.0 million during the year ended
March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: net Covid-19 related provision made by the Bank amounting to ` 47,500.0 million).
2. I ncludes contingency provision made amounting to ` 10,250.0 million made by the Bank on a prudent basis during the year
ended March 31, 2022.
3. I ncludes general provision made towards standard assets, provision on fixed assets acquired under debt-asset swap and
non-fund based facilities.
policies in force are in accordance with the guidelines and norms issued by the IRDAI and the Institute of Actuaries
of India in concurrence with the IRDAI.
300

--- Page 363 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 7. Staff retirement benefits Pension The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for pension benefits.
Discount rate 6.30% 5.75%
Salary escalation rate:
Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.50% 7.50%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
301

--- Page 364 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for gratuity benefits of the Group.
302

--- Page 365 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Unrecognised past service cost - - Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in para 59(b) of AS 15 on - - ‘employee benefits’) Asset/(liability) (156.8) (412.9) Cost for the year1 Service cost 1,581.7 1,669.2 Interest cost 1,058.8 1,052.8 Expected return on plan assets (1,116.6) (1,045.5) Actuarial (gain)/loss (81.0) (1,418.7) Past service cost - (3.5) Exchange fluctuation loss/(gain) 6.0 (6.5) Net cost 1,448.9 247.8 Actual return on plan assets 1,083.4 1,931.9 Expected employer’s contribution next year 1,030.0 1,130.1 Investment details of plan assets Insurer managed funds 18.88% 21.79% Government of India securities 23.76% 28.55% Corporate bonds 38.90% 35.57% Special Deposit schemes - 1.75% Equity 16.75% 11.12% Others 1.71% 1.22% Assumptions Discount rate 5.80%-7.30% 5.20%-6.90% Salary escalation rate 7.00%-10.00% 7.00%-10.00% Estimated rate of return on plan assets 7.00%-8.00% 7.00%-8.00%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
Estimated rate of return on plan assets is based on the expected average long-term rate of return on investments of
the Fund during the estimated term of the obligations.
The estimates of future salary increases, considered in actuarial valuation, take into consideration inflation, seniority,
promotion and other relevant factors.
303

--- Page 366 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Provident Fund (PF) The Group has does not have any liability towards interest rate guarantee on exempt provident fund on the basis of
actuarial valuation at year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 2.7 million).
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, movement of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation, fair value of plan assets and other details for provident fund of the Group.
304

--- Page 367 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) ` in million Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Special deposit scheme 1.07% 1.33% Others 9.81% 7.83% Assumptions Discount rate 6.00%-6.85% 5.70%-6.55% Expected rate of return on assets 7.54%-8.25% 6.88%-8.59% Discount rate for the remaining term to maturity of investments 6.75%-7.15% 6.30%-6.80% Average historic yield on the investment 8.25%-8.87% 7.93%-8.54% Guaranteed rate of return 8.10%-8.10% 8.50%-8.50% Experience adjustment ` in million Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Particulars March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2018 Plan assets 50,656.3 45,615.2 38,682.6 33,282.4 29,587.9 Defined benefit obligations (49,411.5) (45,617.9) (38,703.4) (33,282.4) (29,587.9) Amount not recognised as an asset (limit in para 59(b)) AS 15 on ‘employee benefits’)2 (1,244.8) - - - - Surplus/(deficit) - (2.7) (20.8) - - Experience adjustment on plan assets 415.1 663.8 (662.0) 13.0 (15.1) Experience adjustment on plan liabilities (684.8) 1,703.3 (129.9) 447.4 501.6 1. I n case of ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited, assets and liabilities of Employee Provident Fund Trust were
realised and transferred to Central Provident Fund at March 31, 2022.
2. P ursuant to revised Guidance Note 29 on “Valuation of Interest Rate Guarantees on Exempt Provident Funds under AS 15
(Revised)” issued by ‘Institute of Actuaries of India on February 16, 2022, plan assets held by PF Trust have been fair valued.
The amount represents the fair value gain on plan assets.
3. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of Schedule 16- Operating expenses.
compulsory contribution made towards employee pension scheme under Employees Provident Fund and
Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1952.
The Group has contributed ` 274.0 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 248.7
million) to Superannuation Fund for employees who had opted for the scheme.
The Group has contributed ` 291.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2022 (March 31, 2021: ` 246.0 million) to
NPS for employees who had opted for the scheme.
305

--- Page 368 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Compensated absence
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, cost for compensated absence.
Salary escalation rate 7.00%-10.00% 7.00%-10.00%
1. Included in line item ‘Payments to and provision for employees’ of schedule- 16 Operating expenses.
The provision for income tax (including deferred tax) for the year ended March 31, 2022 amounted to
` 84,574.4 million (March 31, 2021: ` 56,643.7 million).
transactions with international related parties and specified transactions with domestic related parties are primarily
at arm’s length so that the above legislation does not have material impact on the financial statements.
9. Deferred tax
At March 31, 2022, the Group has recorded net deferred tax asset of ` 79,484.8 million (March 31, 2021:
` 93,350.2 million), which has been included in other assets.
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the break-up of deferred tax assets and liabilities into
major items.
Total net deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 79,484.8 93,350.2
1. T hese items are considered in accordance with the requirements of Income Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS).
2. Insignificant amount.
306

--- Page 369 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 10. Information about business and geographical segments A. Business Segments
The business segments of the Group have been presented as follows:
Standards: A Revised Framework”. This segment also includes income from credit cards, debit cards,
third party product distribution and the associated costs.
ii. Wholesale banking includes all advances to trusts, partnership firms, companies and statutory bodies, by
the Bank which are not included under Retail banking.
iii. Treasury includes the entire investment and derivative portfolio of the Bank and ICICI Strategic Investments
Fund.
segment of the Bank. Further, it includes the Bank’s banking subsidiaries i.e. ICICI Bank UK PLC and ICICI
Bank Canada.
v. Life insurance represents results of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited.
share in the net profit of ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited is included in “share of profit
in associates”.
ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, ICICI Investment Management Company Limited, ICICI Trusteeship Services
Limited and ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited.
viii. Unallocated includes items such as tax paid in advance net of provision, deferred tax and provisions to the
extent reckoned at the entity level.
Income, expenses, assets and liabilities are either specifically identified with individual segments or are
allocated to segments on a systematic basis.
business units at appropriate rates based on the relevant maturity of assets being funded after adjusting
for regulatory reserve requirements.
The transfer pricing mechanism of the Bank is periodically reviewed. The segment results are determined
based on the transfer pricing mechanism prevailing for the respective reporting periods.
307

--- Page 370 ---
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) .2202 ,13 hcraM dedne raey eht rof stluser tnemges ssenisub eht ,htrof stes elbat gniwollof ehT noillim ni ` latoT -retnI srehtO efiL rehtO yrusaerT elaselohW liateR sralucitraP .rS tnemges ecnarusni gniknab gniknab gniknab .on stnemtsujda ssenisub 2.363,575,1 )8.374,219( 5.233,78 4.204,354 1.487,72 9.012,376 9.417,993 2.293,648 euneveR 1 7.261,243 )0.297,61( 9.994,34 6.509,7 2.172,6 8.447,69 3.925,09 9.300,411 1stluser tnemgeS 2 )0.052( sesnepxe detacollanU 3 3.445,7 morf tiforp fo erahS 4 setaicossa 0.759,943 tiforp gnitarepO 5 1)4( + )3( – )2( 4.475,48 /)ten( sesnepxe xat emocnI 6 )tiderc xat derrefed ten( 6.283,562 )6( – )5( 2tiforp teN 7 noitamrofni rehtO 2.746,024,71 )9.612,501( 8.435,615 2.460,044,2 9.668,286 9.069,812,5 0.819,097,3 3.915,678,4 stessa tnemgeS 8 6.627,501 stessa detacollanU 9 8.373,625,71 )9( + )8( stessa latoT 01 2.910,464,71 3)9.612,501( 34.682,025 32.345,144,2 31.341,145 39.314,339,2 0.709,312,3 5.249,819,7 seitilibail tnemgeS 11 6.453,26 seitilibail detacollanU 21 8.373,625,71 )21( + )11( seitilibail latoT 31 9.999,61 - 8.349 3.237 7.543 1.326 3.354,4 7.109,9 erutidnepxe latipaC 41 1.003,31 )4.61( 3.627 1.966 9.123 6.993 8.031,3 8.860,8 noitaicerpeD 51 .tseretni ytironim dna xat erofeb tiforP .1 .sredloherahs ytironim fo tiforp ten fo erahs sedulcnI .2 .sulprus dna sevreser dna latipac erahs sedulcnI .3 Annual Report 2021-22 308

--- Page 371 ---
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) .1202 ,13 hcraM dedne raey eht rof stluser tnemges ssenisub eht ,htrof stes elbat gniwollof ehT noillim ni ` latoT -retnI srehtO lareneG efiL rehtO yrusaerT elaselohW liateR sralucitraP .rS tnemges ecnarusni ecnarusni gniknab gniknab gniknab .on stnemtsujda ssenisub 9.129,116,1 )3.264,758( 3.072,87 3.846,921 9.512,634 6.008,13 9.018,466 3.549,173 9.296,657 euneveR 1 4.043,603 )8.875,11( 1.770,04 5.935,91 8.118,01 7.537,5 9.551,601 5.991,85 7.993,77 1stluser tnemgeS 2 0.005,74 detacollanU 3 sesnepxe 9.244,1 morf tiforp fo erahS 4 setaicossa 3.382,062 – )2( tiforp gnitarepO 5 1)4(+)3( 7.346,65 sesnepxe xat emocnI 6 derrefed ten(/)ten( )tiderc xat 6.936,302 )6( – )5( 2tiforp teN 7 noitamrofni rehtO 7.225,495,51 )6.164,741( 8.499,544 1.634,983 1.981,961,2 3.286,057 5.023,206,4 0.573,952,3 5.689,421,4 stessa tnemgeS 8 7.995,341 stessa detacollanU 9 4.221,837,51 )9( + )8( stessa latoT 01 8.715,576,51 3)6.164,741( 38.398,944 37.885,293 32.643,071,2 33.321,936 33.081,084,2 2.936,128,2 9.702,968,6 seitilibail tnemgeS 11 6.406,26 seitilibail detacollanU 21 4.221,837,51 seitilibail latoT 31 )21( + )11( 2.951,71 - 2.547 0.377 1.004 2.104 6.668 0.547,4 1.822,9 erutidnepxe latipaC 41 7.004,31 )4.61( 6.995 0.603,1 0.895 3.323 0.184 8.958,2 4.942,7 noitaicerpeD 51 .tseretni ytironim dna xat erofeb tiforP .1 .sredloherahs ytironim fo tiforp ten fo erahs sedulcnI .2 .sulprus dna sevreser dna latipac erahs sedulcnI .3 Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements 309

--- Page 372 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) B. Geographical segments
The Group has reported its operations under the following geographical segments.
• Domestic operations comprise branches and subsidiaries/joint ventures in India.
• Foreign operations comprise branches and subsidiaries/joint ventures outside India and offshore banking
units in India.
The Group conducts transactions with its customers on a global basis in accordance with their business
requirements, which may span across various geographies.
The following tables set forth, for the periods indicated, the geographical segment results.
Total 1,582,907.5 1,613,364.8
1. Includes share of profit from associates of ` 7,544.3 million (March 31, 2021: ` 1,442.9 million).
Total 17,420,647.2 15,594,522.7
Note: Segment assets do not include tax paid in advance/tax deducted at source (net) and deferred tax assets (net).
The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, capital expenditure and depreciation thereon for the
geographical segments.
non-compliance with directions issued by RBI on levy of penal charges on non-maintenance of minimum balance in
savings bank accounts dated November 20, 2014.
No penalty was imposed by overseas banking regulatory bodies during the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended
March 31, 2021: Nil).
310

--- Page 373 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 12. Additional information to consolidated accounts Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2022 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013) ` in million Net assets1 Share in profit or loss Name of the entity % of total Amount % of total Amount net assets net profit Parent ICICI Bank Limited 93.7% 1,705,119.7 92.9% 233,394.9 Subsidiaries Indian ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 0.9% 15,897.8 1.3% 3,301.6 ICICI Securities Limited 1.3% 24,087.2 5.6% 13,948.1 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 0.9% 17,038.1 0.4% 934.4 ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited 0.0%2 8.6 0.0%2 0.5 ICICI Investment Management Company Limited 0.0%2 95.8 0.0%2 12.8 ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited 0.1% 2,461.3 0.0%2 2.2 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 5.0% 91,630.6 3.0% 7,541.3 ICICI Prudential Trust Limited 0.0%2 17.7 0.0%2 3.7 ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 1.0% 18,599.4 5.7% 14,363.4 ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited 0.0%2 549.2 0.0%2 50.7 Foreign ICICI Bank UK PLC 1.3% 23,940.8 0.3% 812.2 ICICI Bank Canada 1.3% 23,436.9 0.7% 1,737.3 ICICI International Limited 0.0%2 104.1 0.0%2 0.8 ICICI Securities Holdings Inc. 0.0%2 130.8 0.0%2 0.3 ICICI Securities Inc. 0.0%2 303.8 0.0%2 30.0 Other consolidated entities Indian ICICI Strategic Investments Fund 0.0%2 112.1 0.2% 535.9 Foreign
NIL - - - -
Minority Interests (3.3%) (59,808.9) (5.7%) (14,281.6) Associates Indian ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited - - 2.4% 6,106.5 I-Process Services (India) Private Limited - - 0.0%2 34.3 NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and Insurance Training Limited - - 0.0%2 2.3 ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited - - (0.0%)2 (4.6) India Infradebt Limited - - 0.6% 1,396.5 India Advantage Fund III - - (0.0%)2 (0.2) India Advantage Fund IV - - (0.0%)2 (2.4) Arteria Technologies Private Limited - - 0.0%2 12.0 Foreign
NIL - - - -
Joint Ventures
NIL - - - -
Inter-company adjustments (2.2%) (43,200.1) (7.4%) (18,831.9)
TOTAL 100.0% 1,820,524.9 100.0% 251,101.0
1. Total assets minus total liabilities.
2. Insignificant.
311

--- Page 374 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) Additional information to consolidated accounts at March 31, 2021 (Pursuant to Schedule III of the Companies Act, 2013) ` in million Net assets1 Share in profit or loss Name of the entity % of total Amount % of total Amount net assets net profit Parent ICICI Bank Limited 93.6% 1,475,091.9 88.1% 161,926.8 Subsidiaries Indian ICICI Securities Primary Dealership Limited 0.9% 14,409.7 3.5% 6,473.3 ICICI Securities Limited 1.1% 18,027.0 5.9% 10,933.0 ICICI Home Finance Company Limited 1.0% 16,085.9 0.4% 806.3 ICICI Trusteeship Services Limited 0.0%2 8.1 0.0%2 0.7 ICICI Investment Management Company Limited 0.0%2 83.0 (0.0%)2 (11.8) ICICI Venture Funds Management Company Limited 0.2% 2,459.1 0.0%2 40.1 ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited 5.8% 91,188.6 5.2% 9,601.5 ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited 5.1% 81,156.6 8.0% 14,730.5 ICICI Prudential Trust Limited 0.0%2 15.4 0.0%2 1.7 ICICI Prudential Asset Management Company Limited 1.0% 16,274.7 6.4% 11,795.0 ICICI Prudential Pension Funds Management Company Limited 0.0%2 288.5 (0.0%)2 (39.9) Foreign ICICI Bank UK PLC 2.4% 37,047.9 0.6% 1,097.9 ICICI Bank Canada 2.2% 34,795.0 0.6% 1,126.1 ICICI International Limited 0.0%2 99.6 (0.0%)2 (11.8) ICICI Securities Holdings Inc. 0.0%2 130.4 (0.0%)2 (1.3) ICICI Securities Inc. 0.0%2 274.8 0.0%2 6.3 Other consolidated entities Indian ICICI Strategic Investments Fund 0.0%2 375.0 0.0%2 75.0 Foreign
NIL - - - -
Minority interests (6.1%) (95,883.4) (10.8%) (19,796.5) Associates Indian I-Process Services (India) Private Limited - - 0.0%2 11.8 NIIT Institute of Finance Banking and Insurance Training Limited - - 0.0%2 0.5 ICICI Merchant Services Private Limited - - 0.1% 185.8 India Infradebt Limited - - 0.7% 1,198.8 India Advantage Fund III - - 0.0%2 13.8 India Advantage Fund IV - - 0.0%2 19.3 Arteria Technologies Private Limited - - 0.0%2 13.0 Foreign
NIL - - - -
Joint Ventures
NIL - - - -
Inter-company adjustments (7.2%) (116,052.8) (8.9%) (16,352.7) Total net assets/net profit 100.0% 1,575,875.0 100.0% 183,843.2
1. Total assets minus total liabilities.
2. Insignificant.
312

--- Page 375 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) 13. Revaluation of fixed assets The Bank and its housing finance subsidiary follows the revaluation model for their premises (land and buildings) other than improvements to leasehold property as per AS 10 – ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’. The Bank had initially revalued its premises at March 31, 2016 and its housing finance subsidiary revalued its premises at March 31, 2017. In accordance with the policy, annual revaluation is carried out through external valuers, using methodologies such as direct sales comparison method and income generation method and the incremental amount has been
taken to revaluation reserve. The revalued amount at March 31, 2022 was ` 58,090.8 million (March 31, 2021:
` 57,271.4 million) as compared to the historical cost less accumulated depreciation of ` 25,805.8 million (March 31,
2021: ` 26,018.6 million).
The revaluation reserve is not available for distribution of dividend.
share for the year ended March 31, 2022 (year ended March 31, 2021: ` 2.00 per equity share). The declaration and
payment of dividend is subject to requisite approvals.
provisioning for NPAs is required with respect to RBI’s supervisory process for the year ended March 31, 2021 and
for the year ended March 31, 2020.
approved by Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (IRDAI) on September 3, 2021 effective from
September 8, 2021.
has accounted its investment in ICICI General as an associate under Accounting Standard – 23 (AS-23) “Accounting
for Investments in Associates” in consolidated financial statement.
ICICI Bank from the provisions of Section 19(2) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 with respect to shareholding
above 30.0% in ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited, for a period of three years.
313

--- Page 376 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ICICI BANK LIMITED
SCHEDULES
forming part of the Consolidated Accounts (Contd.) the year ended March 31, 2022, India witnessed two more waves of the Covid-19 pandemic and the re-imposition of
localised/regional lock-down measures in certain parts of the country.
withdrawn most of the Covid-19 related restrictions, the future trajectory of the pandemic may have an impact on
the results of the Bank and the Group.
to and accept deposits and borrowings from its customers, other entities and persons. These transactions are part
of Bank’s normal banking business, which is conducted ensuring adherence to all regulatory requirements.
invest in other persons or entities identified by or on behalf of the Funding Party (“Ultimate Beneficiaries”) or provide
any guarantee, security or the like on behalf of the Ultimate Beneficiaries.
no material bearing on the true and fair view on the consolidated financial statements and the information pertaining
to the items which are not material have not been disclosed in the consolidated financial statements.
19. Comparative figures
Figures of the previous year have been re-grouped to conform to the current year presentation.
ICAI Firm Registration no.: DIN-00110996 DIN-00043268 DIN-00109206
105047W
Tushar Kurani Vishakha Mulye Anup Bagchi Sandeep Batra Partner Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director Membership no.: 118580 DIN-00203578 DIN-00105962 DIN-03620913 For Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP Rakesh Jha Ranganath Athreya Rajendra Khandelwal Chartered Accountants Group Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary Chief Accountant
ICAI Firm Registration no.:
105146W/W100621
Gautam Shah Partner Membership no.: 117348 Mumbai April 23, 2022 314

--- Page 377 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements 315
,SEIRAIDISBUS
FO
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
EHT
FO
SERUTAEF
TNEILAS
GNINIATNOC
TNEMETATS
SERUTNEV
TNIOJ
DNA
SEINAPMOC
ETAICOSSA
seiraidisbuS
:”A“
traP noillim ni `
ICICI
ICICI
ICICI
erutneV
ICICI
ICICI
ICICI
laitnedurP laitnedurP
ICICI
laitnedurP
ICICI
emoH
ICICI
ICICI
ICICI
sdnuF tnemtsevnI
ICICI
ICICI
seitiruceS sdnuF noisneP tessA laitnedurP knaB
ICICI
knaB
ICICI
efiL pihseetsurT ecnaniF seitiruceS lanoitanretnI tnemeganaM tnemeganaM seitiruceS seitiruceS yramirP sralucitraP tnemeganaM tnemeganaM tsurT 5,4adanaC
3CLP
KU
ecnarusnI secivreS ynapmoC sgnidloH 3detimiL ynapmoC ynapmoC 2 ,1.cnI 2detimiL pihsrelaeD ynapmoC ynapmoC detimiL ynapmoC detimiL 2detimiL 2 ,1.cnI detimiL detimiL 2detimiL 1detimiL 2detimiL detimiL lirpA tsuguA tsuguA rebotcO tsuguA yraurbeF rebotcO hcraM hcraM rebmetpeS rebmevoN enuJ enuJ hcraM rebmetpeS nehw ecnis etad ehT 9002 ,22 5002 ,62 5002 ,62 3002 ,31 3002 ,91 8991 ,72 0002 ,1 8991 ,52 0002 ,9 9991 ,1 9991 ,1 0002 ,31 0002 ,21 5991 ,9 3991 ,51 saw yraidisbus deriuqca erahs pu-diaP 0.006 5.671 0.1 1.144,72 6.186,61 2.86 1.373,41 0.01 0.001 5.0 5.789,01 7.175 2.827 4.316,1 4.365,1 6latipac )8.05( 7.799,91 7.61 3.288,8 2.952,7 9.53 5.752,77 7.154,2 )2.4( 1.8 5.360,01 )9.762( )4.795( 1.874,22 2.433,41 sulpruS & sevreseR 8.985 2.308,42 2.02 9.312,053 7.429,961 3.711 0.204,444,2 3.558,2 8.551 8.9 8.404,951 5.283 5.131 0.671,631 6.327,202 stessa latoT seitilibail latoT latipac gnidulcxe( 6.04 0.926,4 5.2 5.098,313 0.489,541 2.31 4.177,253,2 6.393 0.06 2.1 8.353,831 7.87 7.0 5.480,211 0.628,681 )sevreser dna stnemtsevnI gnidulcni( ni tnemtsevni 1.625 0.114,02 3.81 6.444,54 4.605,93 # 8.770,183,2 1.212,1 6.76 7.7 1.400,6 liN 5.49 0.366,2 4.736,851 7)seiraidisbus revonruT morf emocni ssorG( 1.59 7.043,62 2.01 7.381,8 0.902,5 5.82 6.085,473 7.153 5.261 9.1 1.609,51 9.581 liN 6.543,43 3.574,01 )snoitarepo erofeb )ssol(/tiforP 2.24 3.092,91 7.4 2.493,2 7.958 8.0 6.509,7 7.61 6.51 7.0 3.221,2 2.92 3.0 8.794,81 8.424,4 noitaxat )5.8( 4.947,4 0.1 9.046 4.33 liN 2.463 5.41 8.2 2.0 6.084 )8.0( liN 4.207,4 7.731,1 noitaxat rof noisivorP retfa )ssol(/tiforP 7.05 9.045,41 7.3 3.357,1 2.628 8.0 3.145,7 2.2 8.21 5.0 7.146,1 0.03 3.0 4.597,31 1.782,3 noitaxat dnediviD etaroproc gnidulcni( liN 7.830,21 4.1 8.622 liN liN 1.378,2 liN liN liN liN liN liN 0.489,7 5.318,1 8)xat dnedivid %00.001 %00.15 %08.05 %00.001 %00.001 %00.001 %23.15 %00.001 %00.001 %00.001 %00.001 %00.001 %00.001 %98.47 %00.001 gnidloherahs fo % noillim 1.0 naht ssel tnuoma # :setoN .cnI sgnidloH seitiruceS
ICICI
fo yraidisbus denwo yllohw a si .cnI seitiruceS
ICICI
.detimiL seitiruceS
ICICI
fo yraidisbus denwo yllohw a si .cnI sgnidloH seitiruceS ICICI .1 .detimiL ynapmoC ecnarusnI efiL laitnedurP
ICICI
fo yraidisbus denwo yllohw a si detimiL ynapmoC tnemeganaM sdnuF noisneP laitnedurP ICICI .seititne eseht yb SA dnI ot noitargim ot tnausrup stnemetats laicnanif SA dnI ytitne evitcepser rep sa noitamrofni laicnaniF .2 .5297.57 ` =
DSU
1 fo 2202 ,13 hcraM ta etar gnisolc eht ta seepuR naidnI otni detalsnart neeb sah detimiL lanoitanretnI ICICI dna
CLP
KU
knaB
ICICI
fo noitamrofni laicnanif ehT .3 .raey laicnanif rieht gnieb ,1202 ,13 rebmeceD ot 1202 ,1 yraunaJ doirep eht rof si adanaC knaB
ICICI
fo noitamrofni laicnanif ehT .4 .5744.85 `
= DAC
1 fo 1202 ,13 rebmeceD ta etar gnisolc eht ta seepuR naidnI otni detalsnart neeb sah adanaC knaB
ICICI
fo noitamrofni laicnanif ehT .5 .yenom noitacilppa erahs edulcni ton seod latipac erahs pu-diaP .6 .edart ni kcots sa dleh seitiruces edulcni stnemtsevnI .7 .raey eht gnirud diap serahs ytiuqe no dnedivid stneserpeR .8 enoN : snoitarepo ecnemmoc ot tey era hcihw seiraidisbus fo semaN .9 enoN :raey eht gnirud dlos ro detadiuqil neeb evah hcihw seiraidisbus fo semaN .01
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129 OF
COMPANIES ACT, 2013

--- Page 378 ---
Annual Report 2021-22 316 serutnev tnioj dna seinapmoc etaicossA
:”B“
traP noillim ni ` fo etutitsnI
TIIN
airetrA tnahcreM
ICICI
secivreS ssecorP-I drabmoL
ICICI
seryT noclaF tbedarfnI aidnI gniknaB ecnaniF seigolonhceT etavirP secivreS etavirP )aidnI( ecnarusnI lareneG serutnev tnioj/seinapmoc etaicossa fo emaN detimiL detimiL ecnarusnI dna detimiL etavirP detimiL detimiL 2detimiL ynapmoC detimiL gniniarT 6102 ,13 hcraM 1202 ,13 hcraM 1202 ,13 hcraM 1202 ,13 hcraM 1202 ,13 hcraM 1202 ,13 hcraM 2202 ,13 hcraM etad teehs ecnalab detidua tsetaL 1 4102 ,4 rebmeceD 8102 ,92 yaM 2102 ,72 rebmevoN 9002 ,13 rebmeceD 6002 ,7 tsuguA 5002 ,4 rebotcO 1002 ,1 yluJ ro detaicossa saw erutneV tnioJ ro etaicossA eht hcihw no etaD 2 deriuqca ICICI yb dleh serutnev tnioj/seinapmoc etaicossa fo serahS 3 2202 ,13 hcraM ta puorG 771,544,02 000,999 700,163,763 000,285,57 000,009,1 088,9 608,348,532 serahs ytiuqe fo rebmuN liN 0.121 1.034,01 2.287 6.33 7.15 7.745,54 3serutnev tnioj/seinapmoc etaicossa ni tnemtsevni fo tnuomA %93.62 %89.91 %33.24 %10.91 %97.81 %00.91 %40.84 )%( gnidloh fo tnetxE 5 etoN 4 etoN 5 etoN 4 etoN 4 etoN 4 etoN 5 etoN ecneulfni tnacifingis fo noitpircseD 4 5 etoN
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
.A.N
erutnev tnioj/etaicossa eht fo noitadilosnoc-non fo nosaeR 5
.A.N
8.73 8.680,9 6.889 5.42 7.71 9.884,54 detidua tsetal rep sa gnidloherahs ot elbatubirtta htrowteN 6 teehs ecnalab 2202 ,13 hcraM dedne raey eht rof )ssol(/tiforP 7
.A.N
0.21 5.693,1 )7.4( 3.2 3.43 9.501,6 noitadilosnoc ni deredisnoC i
.A.N
7.25 7.209,1 7.987 3.01 8.441 2.406,6 noitadilosnoc ni deredisnoc toN ii :setoN stnatnuoccA deretrahC fo etutitsnI eht yb deussi ,stnemetatS laicnaniF detadilosnoC ni setaicossA ni stnemtsevnI rof gnitnuoccA - 32 )SA( dradnatS gnitnuoccA fo selpicnirp eht no desab deraperp neeb sah tnemetats evoba ehT 1 esoht ni latipac erahs latot fo %00.02 naht erom sdloh puorg eht hguohtla ,32
SA
rednu denifed sa ecneulfni tnacifingis yna evah ton seod puorG
ICICI
erehw seinapmoc eht edulcni ton seod erofereht dna ,)IACI( aidnI fo .seinapmoc ecnarusnI lareneG drabmoL
ICICI
ni tnemtsevni sti detnuocca sah knaB eht ,ylgnidroccA .knaB eht fo etaicossa na emaceb dna yraidisbus a eb ot desaec detimiL ynapmoC ecnarusnI lareneG drabmoL
ICICI
,1202 ,1 lirpA morF 2 .stnemetats laicnanif detadilosnoc ni ”setaicossA ni stnemtsevnI rof gnitnuoccA“ – 32 – dradnatS gnitnuoccA rednu etaicossa na sa detimiL ynapmoC .eulav gniyrrac stneserpeR 3 .ynapmoc eetsevni eht fo srotcerid fo draoB eht no noitatneserper dna rewop gnitov sti hguorht ecneulfni tnacifingis evah ot demeed si puorG
ICICI
,IACI
yb deussi ,32 SA fo smret nI 4 .ynapmoc eetsevni eht ni rewop gnitov eht fo %00.02 naht erom gnieb gnidloh sti ot eud ecneulfni tnacifingis evah ot demeed si puorG
ICICI
,IACI
yb deussi ,32 SA fo smret nI 5 .erutan ni yraropmet si detimiL seryT noclaF ni tnemtsevni ehT 6 enoN :snoitarepo ecnemmoc ot tey era hcihw serutnev tnioj ro setaicossa fo semaN 7 enoN :raey eht gnirud dlos ro detadiuqil neeb evah hcihw serutnev tnioj ro setaicossa fo semaN 8
STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129 OF
COMPANIES ACT, 2013
srotceriD fo draoB eht fo flaheb no dna roF ihshkaB peednaS elatihC .M yadU idevrutahC ardnahC hsiriG
OEC
& rotceriD gniganaM rotceriD namriahC
60290100-NID
86234000-NID
69901100-NID
artaB peednaS ihcgaB punA eyluM ahkahsiV rotceriD evitucexE rotceriD evitucexE rotceriD evitucexE
31902630-NID
26950100-NID
87530200-NID
lawlednahK ardnejaR ayerhtA htanagnaR ahJ hsekaR iabmuM tnatnuoccA feihC yraterceS ynapmoC reciffO laicnaniF feihC puorG 2202 ,32 lirpA

--- Page 379 ---
Integrated Report Statutory Reports Financial Statements
BASEL PILLAR 3 DISCLOSURES
at March 31, 2022 Pillar 3 disclosures at March 31, 2022 as per Basel III guidelines of RBI have been disclosed separately on the Bank’s
website under ‘Regulatory Disclosures Section’ on the home page.
The link to this section is http://www.icicibank.com/regulatory-disclosure.page.
The section contains the following disclosures:
317

--- Page 380 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
Average assets For the purpose of performance analysis, represents averages of daily balances Average cost of funds Cost of interest bearing liabilities Average equity Quarterly average of equity share capital and reserves and surplus Average yield Yield on interest earning assets Book value per share Share capital plus reserves and surplus divided by outstanding number of equity shares Capital (for CRAR) Capital includes share capital, reserves and surplus (revaluation reserve and foreign currency translation reserve are considered at discounted amount), capital instruments and general provisions as per the RBI Basel III guidelines Capital to risk weighted assets ratio Capital (for CRAR) divided by Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs)
(CRAR)
Core operating profit Profit before provisions and contingencies, excluding treasury income Cost to income Operating expenses divided by net interest income and non-interest income Earnings per share Net profit after tax divided by weighted average number of equity shares outstanding during the year High quality liquid assets Stock of liquid assets which can be readily sold at little or no loss of value or used as collateral to obtain funds Interest spread Average yield less average cost of funds Liquidity coverage ratio Ratio of unencumbered high quality liquid assets to total net cash outflows estimated for the next 30 calendar days Net interest income Total interest earned less total interest expended Net interest margin Total interest earned less total interest expended divided by average interest earning assets Operating profit Profit before provisions and contingencies Provision coverage ratio Provision for non-performing advances divided by gross non-performing advances Provisions to core operating profit Provisions and contingencies (excluding taxation) divided by core operating profit Return on average assets Net profit after tax divided by average assets Return on average equity Net profit after tax divided by average equity Risk weighted assets (RWAs) RWAs are computed by assigning risk weights as per the RBI Basel III guidelines to various on-balance sheet exposure, off-balance sheet exposures and undrawn exposures 318

--- Page 381 ---
REGISTERED OFFICE CORPORATE OFFICE
ICICI Bank Tower, ICICI Bank Towers, Near Chakli Circle, Old Padra Road, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Vadodara 390 007 Mumbai 400 051 Tel: +91-265-6722286 Tel: +91-22-40088111
CIN: L65190GJ1994PLC021012
STATUTORY AUDITORS
M S K A & Associates KKC & Associates LLP Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountants 602, Floor 6, Raheja Titanium, (formerly Khimji Kunverji & Co LLP) Western Express Highway, Sunshine Tower, Level 19, Geetanjali Railway Colony, Senapati Bapat Marg, Ram Nagar, Goregaon East, Elphinstone Road, Mumbai 400 063 Mumbai 400 013
REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENTS
Equity Shares: Bonds/Debentures:
Hyderabad 500 032, Telangana

--- Page 382 ---
NOTES

--- Page 383 ---
Comprehensive Business Banking Solutions.
On your Fingertips.
Download InstaBIZ App
InstaBIZ screen shown here is a modified representation.
Terms & conditions of ICICI Bank apply.

--- Page 384 ---
The App for Anything. Anyone. Anytime.
iMobile Pay today
iMobile Pay screen shown here is a modified representation.
Terms & conditions of ICICI Bank apply.

--- Page 385 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
[Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015] SECTION A: GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT SECTION B: FINANCIAL DETAILS OF THE
THE COMPANY COMPANY
1. C orporate Identity Number (CIN) of the 1. Paid up Capital : ` 13.90 billion Company: L65190GJ1994PLC021012 2. *Total Turnover : ` 1,048.92 billion 2. Name of the Company: ICICI Bank Limited * Total turnover represents the sum of “Interest earned” 3. Registered address: ICICI Bank Tower, Near Chakli (Schedule 13 of the financial statements) and “Other
Circle, Old Padra Road, Vadodara 390 007, Gujarat, income” (Schedule 14 of the financial statements).
India.
activities during the year, which was 2.1% of the
(industrial activity code-wise):
(Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Amendment
Regulation Act, 1949.
Rules, 2021 have been made in the Annual Report for
the year ended March 31, 2022 (fiscal 2022).
8. L ist three key products/services that the
Company manufactures/provides:
5. L ist of activities in which expenditure in 4
ICICI Bank, is engaged in providing a wide range of above has been incurred:
The Bank’s CSR spends during fiscal 2022 were
corporate banking and treasury operations.
I CICI Bank has banking subsidiaries in the United promoting hygiene and waste management, providing
Kingdom and Canada, branches in Bahrain, drinking water and financial literacy and counselling.
Indonesia, Malaysia, Nepal, Sri Lanka, the United 1. D oes the Company have any Subsidiary
Company/Companies?
subsidiary in the United Kingdom also has a Yes
branch in Germany.
ICICI Bank serves customers in national and Foundation in fiscal 2022. Some subsidiaries also
international locations. undertake additional activities independently.
1

--- Page 386 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3. D o any other entity/entities (e.g. suppliers, Voluntary Guidelines (NVGs) on social, distributors etc.) that the Company does environmental and economic responsibilities of
business with, participate in the BR initiatives business which are applicable.
3. Designation: Executive Director
SECTION D: BR INFORMATION
(b) Details of the BR head 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR 1. DIN (if applicable): Not Applicable (a) D etails of the Director/Directors 2. Name: Mr. Ranganath Athreya responsible for implementation of the BR 3. Designation: Company Secretary policy/policies 4. Telephone Number: +91-22-2653 6709 T he Company has in place the policies and processes to address principles of the National 5. E-mail id: companysecretary@icicibank.com 2. Principle-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies The NVGs on social, environmental and economic responsibilities of business prescribed by the Ministry of Corporate
Affairs advocates the nine principles (detailed below) as P1-P9 to be followed:
P9 Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner
The principle wise responses are mentioned in the Annexure to this report.
Board of Directors, Committee of the Board
frequently it is published?
or CEO to assess the BR performance of the
T he Bank publishes the BR Report annually.
Annually, More than 1 year
https://www.icicibank.com/aboutus/annual.page.
Annually.
2

--- Page 387 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
has also been publishing an Environmental, Council (CSC) of the Bank functions as the Standing Social and Governance Report (ESG Report). Committee on Customer Service. The CSC is chaired The Integrated Report and the ESG Report for by a Wholetime Director. Business Heads and the fiscal 2022 are hosted on the website of the Bank Heads of related departments are members of the https://www.icicibank.com/aboutus/annual.html. CSC. The CSC focuses on building and strengthening customer service orientation in the Bank through SECTION E: PRINCIPLE-WISE PERFORMANCE various measures including simplifying processes for improvement in customer service levels. The Principle 1 Board of the Bank has constituted a Customer Service 1. D oes the policy relating to ethics, bribery and Committee which reviews the customer service corruption cover only the company? Yes/No. initiatives, oversees the functioning of the CSC and Does it extend to the Group/Joint Ventures/ evolves innovative measures for enhancing the quality Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/Others? of customer service and improvement in the overall satisfaction level of customers. During fiscal 2022, The Bank is committed to acting professionally, 30,096 complaints were outstanding at the beginning fairly and with integrity in all its dealings. The Bank, of the year and 409,670 complaints were received through the Group Code of Business Conduct & Ethics, during the year, and of this totaI 429,365 complaints has adopted a ‘zero-tolerance’ approach to bribery
have been resolved.
Ethics which captures the behavioural and ethical or environmental concerns, risks and/or
standards along with the ‘zero tolerance’ towards opportunities:
to promote long-term sustainable growth in the
about 50 words or so.
social risk assessment into the overall credit appraisal
Audit Committee.
to Customer, Fair to Bank”, and seeks to treat its their banking activities and offers financial products
customers fairly and provide transparency in its and services that are end-to-end digitally processed.
them to make informed choices regarding banking urban locations and also supports meeting the larger
products and services. The Customer Service goals of social empowerment and development.
3

--- Page 388 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth focuses 5. D oes the company have a mechanism to primarily on skill development for sustainable recycle products and waste? If yes what is livelihoods, rural livelihoods and social and the percentage of recycling of products and environmental projects. In response to the Covid-19 waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also,
crisis, the Bank and Foundation focused on providing provide details thereof, in about 50 words or so.
Integrated Report section of the Annual Report for
gardening, flushing & cooling tower requirements.
fiscal 2022.
details in respect of resource use (energy,
1. P lease indicate the Total number of employees:
The Bank had 105,844 employees (including
(optional):
contractual employees) at March 31, 2022.
the products/initiatives referred to above, some of the 2. P lease indicate the Total number of employees
questions below are not applicable to the Bank. hired on temporary/contractual/casual basis:
(a) R eduction during sourcing/production/
fixed term contract.
distribution achieved since the previous year
throughout the value chain?
3. P lease indicate the number of permanent
NA women employees:
(b) R eduction during usage by consumers (energy,
March 31, 2022.
water) has been achieved since the previous
year?
4. P lease indicate the number of permanent
Please refer to the response under Principle 6. employees with disabilities:
disabled employees. The Bank is an equal opportunity
sustainable sourcing (including transportation)?
income tax deduction for self-disability, the Bank had
thereof, in about 50 words or so.
80 such employees.
NA
5. D o you have an employee association that is 4. H as the company taken any steps to procure
recognised by management:
been taken to improve their capacity and are members of this recognised employee
capability of local and small vendors? association?
NA NA
4

--- Page 389 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
7. P lease indicate the number of complaints Planned vaccination drives were conducted in relating to child labour, forced labour, workplace vaccination centers in association with involuntary labour, sexual harassment in the hospital partners. Additionally, for small district and last financial year and pending, as on the end hub locations, local tie-ups for in-hospital vaccination of the financial year. drive were also established. In case employees The Bank does not engage in any form of child labour/ availed vaccination at their own expense from outside, forced labour/involuntary labour and does not adopt reimbursement was provided for employees and their any discriminatory employment practices. The Bank dependents. The planned drives included not just has a policy against sexual harassment and a formal ICICI Bank employees and dependents, but also all process for dealing with complaints of harassment or other service partners including security guards and IT
discrimination. The said policy is in line with relevant support personnel.
vehicle. It is GPS enabled and carries a stretcher and
defined timelines.
fire extinguishers along with a team trained to deal
The details pertaining to number of complaints during with medical and personal safety related emergencies.
the year are provided below:
1 All complaints received during fiscal 2022 have been form part of the trainings conducted. Employees are
closed within the applicable turnaround time (90 days). also provided access to a suite of e-learning modules.
8. W hat percentage of your under mentioned
learning hours covering all employees.
employees were given safety and skill
up-gradation training in the last year?
the Bank with a situation where it had to ensure
stakeholders.
Bank launched a focused programme to vaccinate all and pension cover for reaching out to disadvantaged,
its employees and their dependent family members. vulnerable and marginalised stakeholders.
5

--- Page 390 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
3. A re there any special initiatives taken by the The Bank’s philosophy of non-discrimination among company to engage with the disadvantaged, employees, meritocracy and mechanisms for redressal vulnerable and marginalized stakeholders. If of employee issues applies across the Bank and its so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words subsidiaries. It does not engage in any form of child or so. labour and does not violate any principles relating to
human rights.
various other projects for the benefit of the public at measures that build confidence of the consumer in the
large, including improving the healthcare facilities in banking system.
areas of rain-water harvesting in rural government
laws, including child labour.
had planted over one million trees till March 31, 2022. what percent was satisfactorily resolved by
The Bank’s activities in the rural areas also include the management?
financial services through a network of branches and
Principle 1.
the rural economy. The Bank is taking steps to enable the company or extends to the Group/Joint
Ventures/Suppliers/Contractors/NGOs/others.
the ‘Environmental Sustainability’ chapter in the
NGOs/Others?
The Bank is committed to promoting and respecting
fiscal 2022.
Bank has policies keeping in mind the principles as to address global environmental issues such
as climate change, global warming, etc? Y/N.
laid down by the UN Guiding Principles on Business
If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc.
and Human Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work and UN Global Compact. Yes.
6

--- Page 391 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
The Bank is committed to conducting its also formulated an approach for analysing climate business responsibly. The Bank has a social and risks. This includes a methodology to integrate risks environmental management framework, which has emanating from climate change and begin testing the set minimum standards for funding different sectors. sensitivity of the lending portfolio to transition and
The Bank has also started considering borrower physical risks.
could be exposed to. The Bank will align its efforts
report is filed?
The Bank uses renewable energy at its premises environmental sustainability and projects that reduce
wherever feasible. At March 31, 2022, the total greenhouse gas emissions.
power purchase agreements (PPA) for solar and wind
please give hyperlink for web page etc.
Sustainability’ chapter in the Integrated Report section
power under the power purchase agreements.
of the Annual Report for fiscal 2022.
environmental risks? Y/N refer to the Environmental, Social and Governance
Report for fiscal 2022.
is applicable for all new financing proposals above
reported?
assessment include an exclusion list, seeking a The Bank complies with applicable environmental
declaration from borrowers of compliance with regulations in respect of its premises and operations.
due-diligence by a Lender’s Independent Engineer
Year.
(LIE) for large-ticket project loans identified as per
the criteria defined in the framework. The Bank has There were no outstanding notices at March 31, 2022.
7

--- Page 392 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
Principle 7 programmes of ICICI Foundation include the ICICI Academy for Skills (skill academies) operating 1. I s your company a member of any trade 28 vocational training centres across 21 states/union and chamber or association? If Yes, Name territory, the Rural Livelihood programme focused only those major ones that your business on value chain and entrepreneurship development
deals with:
Inclusive Development Policies, Energy
including among women.
Bank engaged with regulators and trade bodies and
fiscal 2022.
several initiatives for promoting inclusive growth. In external NGO/government structures/any
this effort, the Bank partners with state governments other organization?
through in-house teams and the ICICI Foundation,
development and social and environmental projects.
with the assistance of implementation partners
The Wholetime Directors and members of senior as required.
working groups constituted by the Government of
initiative?
India and the Reserve Bank of India.
livelihood programme undertaken through ICICI
related to Principle 8? If yes details thereof.
8

--- Page 393 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
in the Annual Report on CSR activities forming part of 2. D oes the company display product information Annual Report for fiscal 2022. The impact assessment on the product label, over and above what is reports are also available on the Bank’s website at mandated as per local laws? Yes/No/N.A./
https://www.icicibank.com/aboutus/corporate-social- Remarks (additional information).
products and services at the Bank’s premises and
INR and the details of the projects undertaken.
its website.
and environmental projects, rain water harvesting, anti-competitive behavior during the last five
rural development and related activities, promoting years and pending as on end of financial year.
education, promoting healthcare, awareness campaign If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words
on social and environmental issues through display or so.
a cordial relationship with its customers/borrowers
successfully adopted by the community?
and attempts to have an amicable settlement of the
Please explain in 50 words, or so.
dispute but in some cases the Bank needs to pursue
The programmes of ICICI Foundation are designed legal resolution of the same.
the local economy. ICICI Foundation encourages
survey/consumer satisfaction trends?
feedback is analysed and the insights from the
their livelihood.
1. W hat percentage of customer complaints/
in specific areas are conducted on a regular basis.
The focus of these researches is to identify areas
financial year.
The Bank resolved 98% of customer complaints during the Bank and define appropriate action points
fiscal 2022. for improvement.
9

--- Page 394 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
ANNEXURE
(a) Details of compliance (Reply in Y/N) Sr. Questions P1- P2- P3- P4- P5- P6- P7- P8- P9- No. Please Please Please Please Please Please Please Please Please refer refer refer refer refer refer refer refer refer Note P1 Note P2 Note P3 Note P4 Note P5 Note P6 Note P7 Note P8 Note P9 1 Do you have a policy/ Y Y Y Y Y Y N Y Y
policies for....
consultation with the
relevant stakeholders?
owner/CEO/appropriate
Board Director?
implementation of the
policy?
policy to be viewed
online?
internal and external
stakeholders?
implement the policy/
policies.
grievances related to
the policy/policies?
10

--- Page 395 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
(b) If answer to the question at Sr. No. 1 against any principle, is ‘No’, please explain why:
Sr. Questions P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 P8 P9
No.
The Group Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the Policy on Related Party Transaction is available on the website of the
Bank at www.icicibank.com. The other policies are internal documents and accessible only to employees of the organisation.
aspects of customer protection, mechanism for creating customer awareness on the risks and responsibilities involved in
electronic banking transactions, timelines for effecting compensation and the customer liability in such scenarios.
to provide an environment of care, nurturing and opportunity to accomplish professional aspirations. Sr. No. 6 - These policies
can be viewed online only by the employees of the organisation.
11

--- Page 396 ---
Annual Report 2021-22
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
P4 The principle enunciates the aspect of being responsive towards all stakeholders especially those who are disadvantaged, vulnerable and marginalized. Sr. No. 3 and 6 - The Bank has set processes in place to achieve the objectives addressed by this principle. The ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth works towards inclusive growth by participating in areas like skill development and sustainable livelihoods. The Bank has a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy which can be viewed on the weblink https://www.icicibank.com/managed-assets/docs/about-us/ICICI-Bank-CSR-Policy.pdf.The details of agri and rural
banking products and facilities are available on https://www.icicibank.com/rural/index.html.
the website of the Bank (https://www.icicibank.com/managed-assets/docs/personal/general-links/code_of_business_conduct_
ethics.pdf). The Code of Commitment is available at the Bank's branches and made available to customers on their request.
its premises and operations. The Bank has been tracking emissions and emission intensity in its own operations and disclosing
the same in the Integrated Report section of the Annual Report.
the banking sector in particular. The Bank, directly, and along with the ICICI Foundation for Inclusive Growth has been working
on several initiatives for promotion of inclusive growth.
in the area of rural development, including efforts to improve financial inclusion, empowering women and supporting the
agricultural economy.
basic rights of the customer and the responsibilities of the Bank. Sr. No. 6 - These policies can be viewed online on
https://www.icicibank.com/customer-service-policies.page?.
12