--- Page 1 ---
G
TATA
BSE Limited Listing Compliance Department
First Floor, New Trading Ring National Stock Exchange of India Ltd.
other audio visual means. The 76th Annual Report (Integrated) for the FY2020-21 is also
available on the Company's website at www.tatamotors.com.
This is for the information of the exchange and the members.
'i---:compan ecretary
TATA MOTORS LIMITED
Bombay House 24 Homi Mody Street Mumbai 400 001 Tel 91 22 6665 B282 www.tatamotors.com CIN L28920MH1945PLC004520

--- Page 2 ---
76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 3 ---
Performance snapshot FY 21 Resilience and Rebound
OPERATING FINANCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL
FY 21 was an extremely challenging year with the COVID-19 pandemic resulting
in severe business disruptions.
EBITDA Margin Scope 1+2 GHG Emissions
headwinds truly reflects strong business fundamentals.
2

--- Page 4 ---
About the report Contents The 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 of the Tata Motors Group outlines 04 14 22 its financial and non-financial performance. The report narrates in detail how Tata Motors has delivered a resilient performance and recorded a sharp
CORPORATE IDENTITY PERFORMANCE VALUE CREATION
rebound while navigating strong economic and sectoral headwinds. 04 Company Profile 16 Chairman’s Message 24 Operating Context 06 Our Presence 18 TML CEO and MD’s Message 26 Risk Management 08 Product Profile 19 JLR CEO’s Message 30 Value-Creation Model 20 Key Performance Indicators 32 Stakeholder Engagement SCOPE AND BOUNDARY MATERIALITY and Materiality The Report covers the performance of Tata Motors Limited and Jaguar The Report includes information that is material to our stakeholders Land Rover, for the period starting from April 1, 2020 to March 31, and our value-creation abilities. We have also presented information 34 50 68 2021. The Report aims to provide a holistic view on our ability to create on how we strategically approach these material issues. The material
long-term value through our value-creation model, strategy, and issues are reviewed by the Group management.
environmental, social and governance (ESG) focus.
ASSURANCE
REPORTING STANDARDS AND FRAMEWORKS Assurance on financial statements has been provided by independent STRATEGIC ROADMAP ESG APPROACH STATUTORY REPORTS 68 Board’s Report The Report has been prepared in accordance with the <IR> auditors BSR & Co. LLP and non-financial statements have been 36 Tata Motors Limited 52 Environment 90 Business Responsibility Report framework prescribed by the International Integrated Reporting assured by TUV India Private Limited. The assurance has been given 44 Jaguar Land Rover 58 Social — People, Community 101 Management Discussion and Analysis Council. The financial and statutory information has been presented against the Report’s adherence to the International <IR> Framework 66 Governance 128 Risk Factors as per the requirements of the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules of the IIRC and the GRI’s Sustainability Reporting Standards. The 147 Report on Corporate Governance made thereunder, the Indian Accounting Standards, the Securities assurance report issued by TUV India Private Limited is available on and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure our website www.tatamotors.com. 170 368 Requirements) Regulations, 2015 and the Secretarial Standards
issued by the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
INTEGRATED APPROACH
The Report showcases the initiatives undertaken across multiple FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE capitals – financial, manufactured, human, intellectual, natural 170 Standalone 368 Notice and social & relationship, and the value created under each of 250 Consolidated For further information, log on to those capitals. We have also applied a sustainability lens (covering www.tatamotors.com the environment, social and governance aspects) to evaluate our performance to better demonstrate our dependencies and impacts on
each of these capitals.

--- Page 5 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Company Profile Delivering mobility solutions Jaguar Land Rover across the world Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) continues to shape the future of modern luxury vehicles globally built around its iconic brands: Jaguar and Land Rover. JLR, which became part of Tata Motors Group in 2008, exemplifies quality and sustainability. JLR's new strategy is Tata Motors Group is one of the leading global automobile manufacturers with reimagining the future of modern luxury by design through a canvas of true sustainability and a new benchmark in quality. Jaguar Land Rover a diversified portfolio of commercial, passenger, and luxury vehicles. Part of aspires to become the creator of the world's most desirable, luxury
the multi-national conglomerate, the Tata Group, we have operations in India, vehicles and services for the most discerning of customers.
strong global network of subsidiaries, associate companies and Joint Ventures
(JVs), including Jaguar Land Rover in the UK and Tata Daewoo in South Korea.
125+ 14.60 8,800+
US$ BN
Tata Motors Limited Tata Motors Limited (TML) is one of India’s biggest automobile manufacturing companies with an extensive range of integrated, smart and e-mobility solutions in its portfolio. TML's strong presence over years is heralded by its ability to offer quality products by connecting customer
aspirations with innovative mobility solutions.
13.3
LIMITED*
passion to enhance the quality of life Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) and Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited (TMFSL) Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles (TDCV) 6.8 are Non-Banking Financial Companies and Tata Technologies Limited (TTL) are (NBFCs). They are the subsidiaries of TMF some of the key subsidiaries of Tata Motors Vision Values Holdings Limited (TMFHL). TMFHL is a 100% Group. TDCV is Korea’s second-largest truck subsidiary of TML and a Core Investment maker, exporting to more than 60 countries By FY 24, we will become the most Company (CIC). TMFL facilitates new vehicle across the world. Tata Technologies Limited aspirational Indian auto brand, financing. TMFSL undertakes the dealer/ is a leading company in engineering services vendor financing business and the used outsourcing and product development IT 78.0 consistently winning, by vehicle refinance/repurchase business. services, providing a competitive edge to
INTEGRITY ACCOUNTABILITY EXCELLENCE global manufacturers.
− creating a highly engaged work force
TEAMWORK CUSTOMER SPEED
FOCUS
*as on March 31, 2021 4 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 5

--- Page 6 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Our Presence 2 3 Europe China Driving Change 02 76,606 01 112,424* Manufacturing Vehicles Sold Across Geographies facilities Joint Vehicles Sold 01 Manufacturing R&D/engineering and facility design centres
C
44,687 CR
C 34,045 CR Revenue Revenue * including CJLR 4 4
UK 3
05 81,500 5 Manufacturing Vehicles Sold facilities 03 2 R&D/engineering and 1 design centres
C
37,244 CR
Revenue 5 1 India North America 10 465,734 01 93,759 Manufacturing Vehicles Sold facilities R&D engineering Vehicles Sold 02 and design centres R&D/engineering and design centres
C
46,947 CR
C
50,381 CR
Revenue Revenue 6 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 7

--- Page 7 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Product Profile Setting the trend, staying ahead Passenger vehicles With the introduction of new architectural platforms and efficient engine options, we strive towards continuous improvement in our product portfolio across all segments –
Commercial vehicles, Passenger vehicles and Electric vehicles.
Commercial vehicles
MHCV ILCV
SAFARI HARRIER
SIGNA PRIMA ULTRA
SCV + Pick-up
NEXON ALTROZ
INTRA ACE YODHA
CV passenger
TIAGO NEXON EV
WINGER MAGIC AMBULANCE STAR BUS EV ULTRA EV
8 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 9

--- Page 8 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Product Profile Contd.
Jaguar
RANGE ROVER RANGE ROVER SPORT
I-PACE XE
VELAR EVOQUE
Discovery
XF E-PACE
DISCOVERY DISCOVERY SPORT
Defender
F-PACE F-TYPE
DEFENDER 90 DEFENDER 110
10 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 11

--- Page 9 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Key Highlights Taking confident strides into the future Awards Tata Motors Limited Tata Motors Limited 1. Launched Click to Drive – a contactless The largest order till date from APSCSC, 1. 3rd consecutive CV Manufacturer of the Sanand, PVBU, Eco innovation - ERC sales platform these vehicles will be used for doorstep Year along with five other segmental Innovative Product/Service Award delivery of supplies in the state of Andhra awards at prestigious Apollo CV awards - DigiVOR and 9x9 electric bus A co ll m ow fo s r t c o u f s t t h o e m ir e h rs o t m o e b s u . y a car from the Pradesh. 2021 8. CII Design excellence award - Tata 5. Celebrated 4 million passenger vehicles 2. CII Customer Obsession award for Nexon and Intra 2. I s n o t l r u o t d io u n c e fo d r F f l l e e e e t t E m d a g n e a , g a e n m e e x n t- t g en digital on road 3rd year in row - CV Business 9. National Energy Conservation Award This was celebrated with the launch of the 3. Car and Bike Awards 2021 - EV of the (NECA) 2020 – TML bagged this award A new benchmark for a connected vehicle #WeLoveYou4Million campaign. year, Green Car of the year - Nexon EV for its energy conservation measures, eco-systems, relevant and beneficial instituted by the Bureau of Energy
across varied fleet sizes, Fleet Edge 6. Improvement in all 9 aspects of Dealer 4. Car and Bike Awards 2021 - Premium Efficiency (BEE).
Pradesh State Civil Supplies Corporation warranty. care CVBU, environment management - Governance Scorecard) - Moved into
(APSCSC) the Leadership category in 2019-20.
across models. firm Circulor
World Car Design of the Year.
‘Unstoppable Force’ award in the
electrify 12 out of our 13 nameplates. materials with greater transparency.
coveted annual TopGear.com Awards.
help fight COVID-19 performs exceedingly well in
recognised by Autobest awards.
4. Reducing motion sickness in autonomous
At the heart of JLR's Reimagine plan as 97%. Luxury SUV award at What Car?
vehicles. and 79% for Safety Assist on its way to a
five-star overall score.
aluminium production emissions by up to
26% across the value chain.
12 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 13

--- Page 10 ---
Performance Review Powered by resilience and innovation On a consolidated basis, we ended year on a strong note with EBITDA margins of 12.2% (8.5% in FY 20) and EBIT margins of 2.6% (0.0% in FY 20) and strong
positive auto free cash flows of J 5,317 crore (J (12,676) crore in FY 20).
margin of (3.5%) (significant improvement as compared to (7.2)% in
FY 20) and positive free cash flows of J 2,730 crore (J (7,750) crore in FY 20).
recording its highest ever annual sales in 8 years and growing its market
share to 8.2%.
free cash flows of £0.2 billion (£ (0.8) billion in FY 20) reflecting favorable
mix, lower variable marketing expenses and other costs and Charge+ savings.
double digit sales growth in China have contributed to the strong performance
for JLR in the year.
20 Key Performance Indicators

--- Page 11 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Chairman’s Message Charting a disciplined path for the future Dear Shareholders, this front. The launch of Tata Intra, Yodha BS worldwide. Due to this, we anticipate a VI, Ace Petrol are steps in this direction. gradual improvement in performance during Tata Motors Group is in the year. The business has demonstrated The year gone by: The previous year has been amongst the JLR: Jaguar Land Rover also delivered a the process of pivoting its steadfast resilience in the face of adversity resilient performance during the year. Despite most challenging to-date, with the COVID-19 pandemic causing last year and has strengthened its underlying business model a 14% drop in revenue to £19.7billion, the fundamentals. This track record gives me the
a scale of suffering that is hard to comprehend. In some parts of business improved its EBIT margins by towards sustainable mobility.
in recent months. 14% for the year with China being the
years.
the second quarter of a challenging year. The pandemic resulted our ‘New Forever’ range of cars and SUVs took over as the CEO of Jaguar Land Rover models a bedrock of our strategy. At the and proactively drive the change in consumer
last year, the company in muted consumer demand along with led to the PV business recording its highest from Professor Sir Ralf Speth. I would like to Tata Group we would like to be amongst the behaviour in India and beyond.
on a strong note. health of the business through a laser focus of more than 4000 Nexon EV units since its Jaguar Land Rover has now unveiled its we are clear that this is the right journey we a new frontier, and I would like to welcome
on cash flows. This helped us navigate the launch last year. Reimagine strategy to make the company a must undertake and have begun with pushing you on this journey.
fast to serve customer demand and ended the higher infrastructure demand. The new BS the impact of the pandemic is expected targeting 100% zero tail pipe emissions for the you shareholders for your continued trust,
year on a strong note. VI range of vehicles have been well accepted to gradually recede as more people get portfolio it sells by 2036. Jaguar will become confidence, and support in the coming years.
16 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 17

--- Page 12 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) TML CEO and MD’s Message JLR CEO’s Message Resilience and rebound in every step Transforming to lead, not to play catch up Plan to protect the interests of our business, improvement in EBIT margin by 370bps despite a Dear Shareholders,
customers, dealers and suppliers and to ensure weak first quarter.
a swift bounce back as the situation improves.
Further, we are organising vaccination camps As the future often demands a different approach In September 2020 it was my privilege to EBIT margin and become one of the world’s
at our plants and offices for eligible employees from the past, we have a set of high impact become Chief Executive Officer of Jaguar most profitable luxury manufacturers.
programmes underway aligned with key trends Land Rover.
organisation’s agility and resilience to avail poised to take the big leap in our digital journey of that view is even sharper. years and Jaguar completely reimagined as a
forthcoming opportunities: to transform customer experience and provide a Nobody could have anticipated the tragic pure electric brand, from 2025.
range of solutions for the entire ecosystem.
emission compliance and set new paradigms of we have successfully developed a proprietary to support our communities throughout the will generate sustainable, long-term value
safety, design, quality, connectivity, comfort and Connected Vehicle Platform. This customisable, year. The tremendous resilience of my Jaguar through operational excellence.
scalable and adaptable platform is being Land Rover colleagues is truly inspiring.
CEO and Managing Director, to customers, we successfully leveraged the from customers for providing meaningful CEO, Jaguar Land Rover business faced challenges that could be Limited Board of Directors during the last
Tata Motors Limited power of modularity and commonalities to build insights and easy to use features. considered major risks. However, the pathway financial year.
I hope this letter finds you well and in good smart micro market strategy complementing a collaborate seamlessly across the value chain to brands will be transformed shortage of semiconductors, but we now development and product lifecycles, as
health. deft product strategy enabled better customer deliver richer experiences. have a clear view of the road ahead with our Vehicle Programmes lead.
priority. highest ever annual sales in 8-years. Further, the our presence in the electric commercial vehicle five years and Jaguar satisfy our customers, and reward both our Land Rover Limited Board of Directors for
launch of the ‘Altroz i-Turbo’, the iconic ‘Safari’ in domain across segments. completely reimagined investors and our people. both brands as Chief Creative Officer.
a tough ask that was diligently fulfilled. in the faster growing market segments. enhancing sales momentum, growing market brand, from 2025. placing quality and sustainability at the heart and products, for the most discerning of
The unveiling of an entire CV portfolio (SCV, ILCV share, maintaining leadership in sustainable of everything we do. We are now becoming customers.
We took immediate measures to keep our a more agile organisation that plays to our
people safe and protect their health. In the and MHCV) with customised solutions to address mobility and delivering cash accretive growth. human-centric strengths. Our plan is not to catch up; our plan is to lead.
Our ecosystem inclusive approach to calibrate standard for last mile delivery amongst SCVs. continuing trust, support and commitment to digitalisation. Gaydon, UK, May 18, 2021
shutdown, restart and revival, enabled fast track Tata Motors.
18 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 19

--- Page 13 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Key Performance Indicators Strong performance in a challenging environment Our strong financial recovery since the beginning of the pandemic, matched with robust cost control, has resulted in a return to strong margins and positive
cash flow through the year.
pandemic. Business witnessed industry. utilisations, rising costs, financing to pandemic and de-stocking reduce our GHG emissions. a diverse workforce. land and conservation initiatives
strong sequential recovery challenges impacted overall efforts. across our sites.
thereafter. CV industry.
FY 19 3,01,938 FY 19 9.0 (12,834) FY 19 FY 19 28,391 FY 19 12,61,805 FY 19 1,32,666 FY 19 38,023
ICE
Adverse volume impact offset Profitability improved due Improvement in operational Deleverage plans on track, JLR facilities in the UK, Slovakia The decarbonisation of our global All our facilities have waste MHEV by strong product mix and price to improved product mix and performance and strong cost reduction in net auto debt in and Brazil are all powered 100% manufacturing is a fundamental segregation and management PHEV increases. reduction in costs. saving actions resulting in FY 21. by renewable electricity. We part of our Reimagine strategy, systems implemented. We follow BEV positive free cash flow for year. generate over 13 MW of solar building on our success to date. the waste management hierarchy electricity at our sites, globally. - reduce, reuse, recycle. 42.9 48.9 Y-o-Y Growth *CJLR: Chery Jaguar Land Rover 20 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 21

--- Page 14 ---
Value-Creation Approach Transforming the future sustainably At Tata Motors, we understand the constantly evolving customer preferences and changing external environment. Our endeavor is to deliver technologically advanced world-class products and solutions by driving innovation across the mobility value chain, while also striving to reduce our environmental footprint and
ensuring the viability of our ecosystem.
and Materiality

--- Page 15 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Operating Context Driving through rapid change Electric Mobility The automotive industry is experiencing accelerated transformation. With Electric mobility is gaining significant traction worldwide on The UK government recently revised the phase-out date for the account of need to reduce carbon emissions to avoid harmful sale of new petrol and diesel cars and vans to 2030 from 2035, increase in prices, customers are increasingly becoming focused on Total Cost effects of climate change. Further, automobile manufacturers while the governments of other countries including Norway are focusing on increasing the range with battery packs and on and the Netherlands announced goals of banning new petrol of Ownership for CV’s. There is growing demand for alternate fuel options in building electric cars suited to the needs of customers. and diesel cars. Government of India has shown strong intent of SCV’s and ILCV’s. Due to COVID-19 pandemic, personal mobility has gained driving EV adoption in last few years and have introduced several
policy interventions.
comprising Tata Power, Tata Chemical, Tata Autocomp Systems,
among others, to develop EV infrastructure in India.
READ MORE PG.42
Tata Motors Limited digitally, which reduced turnaround time from 7 days to less than
24 hours.
new prototype air filtration system, is lab-tested and certified to
Tata Motors iRA (iNTELLIGENT REAL-TIME ASSIST) offers a prohibit airborne bacteria and viruses up to 97%.
Motors dealer outlets. To improve internal process efficiency, we Further, JLR’s Click and Deliver has enabled its retailers to drive of luxury vehicles by the end of the decade and 100% of sales
deployed GTME and e-Guru at more than 230 dealerships. Our sales during recent COVID-19 lockdowns. Combined with safe, from pure battery EVs by 2036.
24 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 25

--- Page 16 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Risk management Navigating headwinds with confidence Principal risks Description Consequences Mitigations and opportunities MANAGING GROWTH Delivering on our business If we are unable to deliver With Turnaround 2.0, we intend to At Tata Motors, we monitor the external environment to capitalise on emerging STRATEGY AND DELIVERING and achieving Turnaround and these objectives, our drive towards competitive, consistent ON COMPETITIVE BUSINESS Sustainable transformation ability to achieve our and cash-accretive growth. We also opportunities and proactively undertake measures to mitigate associated EFFICIENCY is key to sustaining profitable financial targets may plan significantly deleverage group and cash accretive growth. limit our capability to and achieve net zero auto debt in three risks. We have established a robust risk governance framework that not only Furthermore, there are invest and fund future years. TML achieved cash and cost evaluates the nature of risks, but also dynamically assesses their likelihood inherent risks to the successful products and technologies. savings of ` 9,300 crore against targets implementation of the recently Any uncertainties that of ` 6,000 crore in FY 21. Project and significance on our value creation abilities. announced Reimagine strategy materially compromise Charge and Project Charge+ delivered for JLR, including the launch the achievement of £6b of cost and cash savings for JLR Type of risk of Jaguar as a BEV only brand, our objectives could since FY 19. The Refocus programme FINANCIAL the significant ramp up of Land unfavourably impact our aims to enhance business efficiency Rover BEVs as well as the operational and and underpins the delivery of JLR’s Principal risks Description Consequences Mitigations and opportunities
Capitals impacted migration to new architectures. financial performance Reimagine strategy.
INTENSIFYING COMPETITION Brand positioning is becoming Our potential inability to With key new launches across TML
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS other factors such as wars, could be significantly our key sales regions.
humanitarian challenges the external environment,
COVID-19 safe; implement preventative with more intense competition the strength of our brands investments to set industry benchmarks.
and pandemics. globally or locally.
and more importantly, India launches, or not being able a more luxurious segment of the
customer delivery, and strong opportunities.
demand for our products. should enable the brand to capitalise on
of sales.
the fast growing BEV segment.
importance in achieving potential disruptions. We work closely
Increasing commodity to satisfy changing customer obsolescence of existing feature delivery.
Type of risk competitiveness and quality. purchase products from
of external shocks, industry In addition to the disruption products and cutting-edge technologies.
impacted the automotive
our strategy.
disruptions. supply chain to enhance the efficiency
of launching its models to market.
26 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 27

--- Page 17 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Risk management Contd.
We engage closely with dealers
attraction of new customers. competitive advantage have a material adverse achieving sustainable transformation.
and service performance support. We have launched the click materialise and investments rationalisation of capital expenditure and
Type of risk could negatively impact the performance. to drive platform for online sales and made do not yield the intended of operations. we critically monitor our capex plans.
OPERATIONAL reputation of our brands. COVID-19 has and continues integrated all dealers on this platform. results or certain projects may
to impact our retailer JLR is enabling its retailers drive online FINANCIAL have to be discontinued.
in the future leading brands and a strong personal data could result managed strategically, through a
reputation, we are an attractive in regulatory censure, security programme and roadmap.
target for cyber criminals. fines with consequential This is recalibrated periodically. The
ENVIRONMENTAL We are subject to a rapidly We may incur additional Sustainability is being brought to the Information technology is reputational and financial programme includes key themes:
and vehicles we produce. advantage by adopting new ultimately achieve net zero emissions. Capitals impacted paramount. deliver products for our controls and managing enterprise
emissions-reducing and customers, and In some information risks to acceptable levels.
Type of risk traditional fossil fuels to more before we do. Furthermore, EV industry today. JLR has significantly safety of our customers and
LEGAL & COMPLIANCE renewable energy sources we may incur significant expanded electrification across its model colleagues.
to maintain and improve our
for automotive companies and launched its Reimagine Strategy, which emerging skill areas and a key talent, our business and culture to support the business.
operating model our workforce will help
during manufacturing and emissions across its supply chain, Type of risk to be successful. automotive industry.
drive this transformation by leveraging
other operations. products and operations by 2039.
OPERATIONAL our digital capability and solutions.
Type of risk is critical to our business for
liquidity of the Group and its crore in FY 21.
running day-to-day operations
FINANCIAL subsidiaries.
and servicing our short-term
obligations.
28 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 29

--- Page 18 ---
Value-creation model Designed to deliver At Tata Motors, our business model is designed to deliver sustained performance. We focus on managing our financial and non-financial profitable growth
resources efficiently to create long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Outputs
TML JLR TML JLR
Design and − `19,056 crore equity − £5,254 million equity engineering − `47,031 crore revenue − £ 19,731 million revenue − `2,586 crore investment − £2,343 investment − 4.3% EBITDA margin − 12.8% EBITDA margin spending spending − (3.5%) EBIT margin − 2.6% EBIT margin Financial − `22,439 crore debt − £6,697 million debt Financial − `2,730 crore free cash flow − £ 185 million free cash flow − 9 manufacturing units − 12 manufacturing and − 4,58,512 units produced − 4,02,420 units produced − 2 design and engineering centres engineering facilities (including Joint Operations) − 7 technology hubs Manufacturing Manufacturing − 11 design applications filed − 124 foreign design − 47 design applications granted − 226 designs approved applications − 89 patents filed − 79 patents granted − 648 patents granted − 184 foreign patent Intellectual applications Intellectual − 5.8 % gender diversity − 17.49 % gender diversity − 50,837 total employees − 36,174 employees − 3,649 employees in R&D − 8.70% Total Employee Turnover Rate − 0.16 LTIFR − 3.70% Voluntary Employee Turnover Human Human Rate
− 0.26 LTIFR
− `23.33 crore spent on CSR − 12,375 hours − 7,58,053 lives impacted through CSR − 21,11,015 lives impacted initiatives through CSR initiatives volunteered by − 10,146 hours volunteered by employees employees − 388 suppliers covered in total under the Sustainable Supply Chain Social and Social and Initiative relationship relationship − 31 more dealerships covered under the Dealers Sustainability Initiative, taking the total to 98 − 1.39 Gj/vehicle specific direct energy − 0.09 tCO/vehicle specific − 2,56,246 tCOe Scope 1 consumed − 11,35,049 MWh energy Scope 1 e 2 missions emissions 2 consumed − 2.75 Gj/vehicle specific indirect − 0.51 tCO/vehicle specific − 100% facilities powered by Natural energy consumed − 13,36,479 m3 water Natural Scope 2 e 2 missions renewable energy powered − 4.14 Gj/vehicle specific total energy consumed − 4,208.5 tonnes of Hazardous facilities in UK, Slovakia and
consumed Waste Disposed Brazil.
30 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 31

--- Page 19 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Stakeholder engagement and materiality Troubleshooting through Materiality assessment The expectations and concerns of our identified stakeholders help us in prioritisation of strategy, policies dynamic engagement
and action plans in the area of economy, environment and society.
engagement and materiality assessment process in FY 21 to identify and prioritise focus areas as per their
During the year under review, TML engaged with various stakeholders groups strategic importance.
to identify their grievances. Further, we focused on incremental engagement
with the stakeholder groups to address the identified issues.
− After-sales servicing surveys, feedback calls, training forums, for innovation with in assessing of
CUSTOMERS
− Pricing direct visits inputs from the TML’s performance?’ − Complaint resolution senior management − Financing opportunities Dealer meets, joint programmes, special DEALERS AND − Knowledge transfer training programmes, dealers council, dealer SERVICE CENTRES − Complaint resolution visits, audits, dealers sustainability initiative − Digitalisation and improving CRM system − Inventory planning Sustainable supply chain initiative, Material topics SUPPLIERS / − Quality compliance technology days, supplier meets, SERVICE PROVIDERS − Closer engagement and exchange of technology vendor council, audits HIGH MEDIUM LOW transfer on quality, safety and sustainability − Adoption of Clean Technology − Value Chain Environment − Biodiversity − Financial performance Investor meets, investor calls, road shows − Vehicle Life Cycle Analysis Management − Material Management INVESTORS AND − Transparency − Greenhouse Gas Emissions − Water & Effluents − Marketing & Labelling SHAREHOLDERS − Compliance − Energy Management − Fleet Fuel Economy − Supplier Social Assessment − Timely communication on strategy and performance − Customer Health & Safety − Air Emissions − Public Policy − Meeting specific local requirement Need-assessment surveys, frequent − Occupational Health & Safety − Vehicle Use Phase Emissions − Freedom Of Association & COMMUNITIES − Community safety meetings − Ethical Business Conduct − Environmental Management Systems Collective Bargaining − Engagement and communication − Governance − Waste Management − Stakeholder Centricity − Labor practices − Relationship building One-on-one meetings, meetings in − Employment & Welfare REGULATORS/ − Thought leadership and advocacy in the industry industry forums − Human Capital Development
GOVERNMENT
− Socio-Economic Impacts − Automotive Cyber Security − Ensuring technical alignment with customer Case-based meetings EXPERTS/ − Community Welfare requirement and regulatory needs ACADEMIC AND − Research & Development − Product and process innovation to ensure resource RESEARCH − Tax efficiency and sustainability INSTITUTIONS − Economic Performance − Product development and capex management − Marketing communication Interactions at regular intervals MEDIA − Constant liaising In the materiality matrix of FY 21, there are 31 material topics, wherein new material topics have emerged such as ethical business conduct,
governance, vehicle life cycle analysis, stakeholder centricity, automotive cyber security, tax and socio-economic impact.
32 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 33

--- Page 20 ---
Strategic roadmap Driven by agility, Inspired by transformation Our operating environment remains challenging with the pandemic
continuing to weigh on consumer sentiments.
and proactive measures across various segments have supported our
business continuity endeavours.
infrastructure development pave the way for TML to consolidate its
position as the market leader in India.
We remain committed to delivering consistent, competitive, cash
accretive growth while deleveraging our balance sheet.
36 TML
44 Jaguar Land Rover

--- Page 21 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Strategic roadmap – TML Accelerating the Recovery With robust action plans in place, we moved Winning with perseverance fast to serve customer demand as economy opened up. Our upgraded BS VI range of Commercial Vehicles and “New Forever” range of Passenger Vehicles witnessed and prudence strong demand. With strong actions focused to ensure ecosystem viability and focussed structural cost reductions, we ended the year on a strong positive note with Bracing the COVID-19 storm improvement in EBITDA and EBIT margins
and positive free cash flows.
three-pronged approach of Survival- EBITDA MARGINS IMPROVEMENT IN EBIT MARGINS FREE CASH FLOWS CASH AND COST SAVINGS
Recovery-Growth.
4.3% 370 2,730 9,300
C C
bps cr. cr.
Our strategy is not just about accelerating the turnaround and meeting challenges – but about building the future
comprehensively and achieving a structural transformation. Our strategy revolves around following aspects:
standing along with our stakeholders staying
connected to them virtually.
with customers/ safety and continuously − Enabling AUTHORITIES − Rigorous cost reflecting a sense of integrated sales and marketing and improved efficiencies of ACES* and driven decision
stakeholders well-being of our to address pain safety kids and − Strong alignment reduction purpose coupled with operating plans to service. Taking and significantly making technology making.
better supply chain
(BCP)
management.
36 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 37

--- Page 22 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Strategic roadmap – TML Contd.
input costs through sustained efficiency roadmap which will improve customers’
improvement actions across our value chain. business.
exploration of new opportunity as we MARKET DEVELOPMENT Electric Vehicles and Fuel Cell Electric
prepare the business to leverage the Further to our successful transition to BS6 in vehicles.
upcoming market trends. FY 21, we are continuing with our actions on
CONTINUED SUCCESS IN COMMERCIAL
new product development and infrastructure
EV SEGMENT
enhancement to meet the upcoming stringent With Electrification picking up progressively EFFICIENCY Real Driving Emissions (RDE) norms. We in India, we have made significant progress on continue with our focus on delivering PRODUCTION COST OPTIMISATION developing comprehensive EV bus solution enhanced value to our customers by bringing for public transport application. We currently OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCY innovative solutions and enhancing customer have 350+ Buses deployed on Indian roads satisfaction. Our aim continues to go beyond under FAME-I and II scheme which have mere compliance, to enhance the product cumulatively covered distance of more performance and thus to improve the overall than 10 million kms demonstrating strong
competitiveness.
major headwinds with volumes falling to related direct material cost reduction, fixed a result, our widest range of BS VI vehicles, ‘Sampoorna Seva’ initiative continue to model (FAME- II). To enable faster adoption
TIGHTER EMISSION REGULATION
the lowest over last decade, reaching the cost restructuring and judicious deployment offering best in class TCO and profitability, provide holistic support to our customers of EVs across emerging segments, we FY 10 levels. We undertook a number of of CAPEX. Similarly to drive better realisation, was well received in the market with strong ELECTRIFICATION delivering enhanced productivity and have embarked on a journey to create EV
measures to navigate the downturn and we also offered a number of value added response. In parallel, we ramped up our earnings. Our aim is to constantly enhance our ecosystem through Tata Group synergies.
AFTER SALES SERVICE
ensure our readiness for quick response services such as Fleet Edge (our next supplies in line with the market recovery, Sampoorna Seva offering through expanded Going forward, in addition to the Bus segment, during subsequent recovery phase. We generation connected vehicle solution) and strengthened S&OP to cater to volatile scope and features. we continue to engage with key customers prioritised strategic actions to rationalise our uptime guarantee to deliver greater benefits demand situation and focused on viability of for deployment of EVs in last mile transport costs, to enhance our product performance to our customers. We undertook extensive the overall ecosystem. This resulted in us NEW OPPORTUNITIES application. As part of our commitment and to boost adaptability of BS VI vehicles, to ecosystem engagement actions, including being able to complete the year on a strong We endeavour to deliver on the continuously journey towards zero emission transport expand our product and service offerings channel partner engagement initiatives, positive note. NEW OPPORTUNITY rising customer expectations for improved solutions, we are also participating in FCEV a ti n g d h t t e o r s in tr v e e n n g t t o h r e y n c o o u n r t r S o & l . O O P u p r r C o o c s e t s r s e f d o u r ction e e x st te ab n l d is e h d s fi u n p a e n r c io ia r l i t t y ie o u f p o s u , r p B ro S d V u I c r t a d n e g m e o a s n t d o CONNECTIVITY p co e s rf t o o r f m o a w n n c e e r , s b h e i t p t e a r n t d u r r e n f a in ro e u m n e d n t t i s m . e W , l e o a w im er b ca u p s a t b e i n li d ti e e r s s a b n y d l e le v v e e r r a a g g in in g g o s u u r p i p n o -h rt o f u r s o e m
ALTERNATE POWERTRAINS ecosystem partners.
continue to lead the
*11 pts improvement in 3 years market developments.
38 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 39

--- Page 23 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Strategic roadmap – TML Contd.
Pillars of future success plan
Our future growth amidst increased competition will be driven by the five core pillars.
Win Sustainably in PV
BRAND PRODUCT STRATEGY RE-IMAGINING FRONT END
There has been strategic focus to consistently TML product approach ensures TML front-end is being given an image increase brand health indicators. There has comprehensiveness and competitiveness overhaul and repositioned across the four been increase in the NPS with sharp decrease of portfolio with new products with smart key planks of customer-facing product life in detractors and passives. NPS increased product intervention and timely refreshes. cycle - sales, dealer processes and resources, from 23 in 2019 to 30 in 2021. The brand The strategy is to enhance targeted market after sales and, customer experience. Digital has grown consistently on both Awareness and strengthen customer association technology will be extensively used for and Consideration scores. Enhancing brand through stylish design, safety and new seamless and best-in-class experience by continues to be a key strategic initiative and technology features driven products. The creating an emotional and lasting connect it will play pivotal role in driving aspirational recently launched New Forever range has with customer, while alternative channel quotient of products in the minds of seen excellent market response and the will be used in rural areas. Micro-market new age customers. portfolio of products is well positioned strategy, continuous dealer monitoring The passenger segment has seen a very to capitalise on the revival in demand. Going Strong transformation actions undertaken in the growing segments. and support, increased channel partner strong rebound in demand post opening up forward also TML is well positioned to grow over the past years have aided the robust competitiveness will also be used for better
of the lockdown. Our strategic intervention across segments with a strong portfolio of turnaround in the PV business.
only provide an overall enhanced customer
launch of New Forever range placed us well safety, superior driveability and features.
STRUCTURAL MARGIN IMPROVEMENT MANUFACTURING AND QUALITY
formats and service models.
LEADERSHIP
We will continue to implement multiple initiatives undertaken in recent past to We will leverage existing assets to cater structurally improve margins and strengthen to increasing demand, while ramping up AGILE MARKETING CHANNEL MARKET SMART PRODUCT DEMAND-SUPPLY FOCUSED ACTION IN SALES TEAM profitability. This includes, Value Analysis production aligned to future market demand ACTIONS TRANSFORMATION INTERVENTION SYNCHRONISATION IDENTIFIED MICRO- EMPOWERMENT and Value Engineering (VAVE) process with proactive debottlenecking actions to MARKETS implemented to optimise outputs by crafting maintain market dominance. We will adopt a mix of function performance and costs. Industry 4.0, robust software maturation to
Initiatives like feature rationalisation, reduce defects and attain flawless launch.
optimisation of product mix for increased quality check for an enhanced in-service
contribution and growth in the non-vehicle experience.
8 63% and localisation of key components will also
years 69% be enhanced for increased margins.
EBITDA ABSOLUTE EBITDA IN SALES TOUCHPOINTS SERVICE TOUCHPOINTS
LAST 10 YEARS
2.2% 906 608 We remain committed to HIGH SINGLE LONG-TERM FCF BREAKEVEN Highest navigate short term challenges, and focussed to Win Sustainably DIGIT EBITDA CAPEX AT 5-6% BY FY 23 & 1160 bps and securing Podium finish in Ever PV’s. We are unswerving in our IN THE NEXT OF REVENUE POSITIVE FCF resolve to achieve our financial working plans. 3 YEARS THEREAFTER 40 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 41

--- Page 24 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Strategic roadmap – TML Contd.
platform (‘One Tata’) for Tata companies to leverage mutual competencies to support e-mobility in India. There
Win Proactively in EV have been significant efforts made to accelerate the EV adoption and lot of actions are underway.
already having established itself as a market leader. Nexon EV has established a niche for itself, having changed the perception of EVs among
Indian customers. Nexon EV is driving the growth of EV industry in India with 65% of total sales in FY 21.
MARKET SHARE VOLUME GROWTH NEXON EV SALES SINCE LAUNCH Driven by cost structure optimisation, increased number of models and infrastructure growth,
71.4% 218% 4,000 TML aspires to strategically retain its dominant share in EVs in the Indian market.
OUR STRATEGY FOCUSES AROUND 4 KEY AREAS:
42 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 43

--- Page 25 ---
Strategic roadmap – JLR Reimagining modern luxury Sustainability rich reimagination of modern luxury With Reimagine, we will transform Jaguar Land Rover, with a value creation approach, delivering quality and profit, over volume. The Reimagine strategy has been designed to address the key challenges facing the ZERO NET-ZERO business. We will become a more agile business, with TAILPIPE REDUCTION IN a simplified manufacturing operation. We will deliver EMISSIONS OPERATIONAL a new benchmark in environmental, societal and BY 2036 CO 2 community impact for a luxury business, creating the world’s most desirable luxury vehicles, against a canvas of true sustainability. This will generate double-digit EBIT margins and positive cashflow, with an ambition to achieve positive cash net-of-debt by 2025. Ultimately, CLEAN by reimagining the future of modern luxury by design, HYDROGEN
RESPONSIBLE
CARBON BY
our ambition is to be one of the most profitable luxury FUEL CELL
SOURCING
2039
manufacturers in the world.
TEST MULES
REIMAGINE FOCUS AREAS
BRANDS PRODUCTS ARCHITECTURES &
POWERTRAIN
RESPONSIBLE MODERN WORLD’S MOST
LUXURY BY DESIGN DESIRABLE LUXURY CARS ELECTRIFIED, SIMPLIFIED,
AND SERVICES FLEXIBLE
COLLABORATION FOOTPRINT REFOCUS
SYNERGIES WITH TATA RETAIN, RIGHT-SIZE, FOCUS ON QUALITY, AND OTHER EXTERNAL REPURPOSE AND SALES, COSTS, DIGITAL
PARTNERS REORGANISE TRANSFORMATION
44 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 45

--- Page 26 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Strategic roadmap – JLR Contd.
Responsible modern Electrified, simplified, is born from an obsession for simplicity from JLR MODELS BY 2030
TO BECOME THE
luxury by design flexible native-BEV and agnostic to battery chemistry, to advance with future technology. It has
CREATOR OF THE
Jaguar and Land Rover are distinct British To enable this accelerated shift in also been engineered to accommodate small brands steeped in a history of timeless WORLD’S MOST electrification, JLR will establish new capacity, high performance electrified ICE 60% designs that emotionally resonate with their benchmark standards in quality and efficiency – true electric-first flexibility, allowing JLR customers; brand equity built over decades. DESIRABLE LUXURY for the luxury sector and central to this is to offer BEV, PHEV and MHEV vehicles with The Reimagine strategy allows JLR to the JLR's new architecture strategy. JLR will exceptional range and performance. sales from BEV by 2030 enhance and celebrate its uniqueness like VEHICLES AND migrate from six different architectures today, For Jaguar, a radically new market position never before. The Reimagine strategy with to just three by the end of the decade. is being created, one that is aspirational and rapid electrification at its core will release the SERVICES FOR THE Land Rover will use the forthcoming Flexible technologically engaging for the discerning full potential of the brands, by leapfrogging Modular Longitudinal Architecture (MLA- modern luxury customer. Thus, all new forward in technology, placing quality and MOST DISCERNING Flex). This will deliver electrified Internal Jaguars will be created on a completely sustainability at the heart of everything Combustion Engines (plug-in hybrids and separate architecture, from 2025 and for this,
it does. OF CUSTOMERS. mild-hybrids) initially, but also allows for full JLR is consulting with potential partners.
battery-electric capability, as future product
PRODUCTS JAGUAR TO BECOME COLLABORATION
World’s most desirable ALL ELECTRIC BRAND Synergies with Tata Group luxury cars and services and other external partners
BY 2025.
number of areas, including ADAS and battery
In the next five years, Land Rover will ROVER IN 2024. technologies, services, and connectivity.
electric luxury brand with a dramatically clean energy that allows JLR to lean forward
beautiful new portfolio of emotionally with confidence and at speed.
generation technologies. significant strategic pillar in Reimagine is a
radical digital transformation of the business.
chain and the support and services it provides
to the customers.
46 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 47

--- Page 27 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Strategic roadmap – JLR Contd.
FOOTPRINT REFOCUS
Retain, right-size, Focus on quality, repurpose and sales, costs, digital reorganise transformation JLR's Reimagine strategy looks to right-size, Refocus combines existing initiatives reorganise and repurpose the global footprint such as Charge+, Accelerate and Ignite to become a more agile business. JLR will with new additional activity into one clear retain all its core global manufacturing plants, program. Refocus brings together existing with a simple vision: to design new benchmark and additional activity from across the quality standards for the luxury sector. JLR organisation to deliver value, address pain will rationalise sourcing and accelerate points and find efficiencies. Refocus is more investments in local circular economy supply than an efficiency programme: it will move chains, by consolidating the number of JLR from a functional silo driven method platforms and models being produced per of working, to a more agile organisation plant. Agility will not just be based on size: generating more value. It will change the flatter management structures will empower way JLR leads, and the way it is organised
employees to create and deliver at speed and and structured.
with clear purpose.
The Refocus programme consists of six separate pillars, supported by three
cross-functional enablers.
FASTER GROWING FY 19-27 in %) FY 19-27 in %) QUALITY DELIVERY & DELIVERED END-TO-END & MARKET CHINA
COST PER CAR SUPPLY CHAIN
PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE
GEOGRAPHIES WITH A
0.5 1.6 China
FOCUS ON INCREASING 2.2 5.8
2.8 Reduced Efficient Reduction In Faster Vehicle Increased Increased
SHARE IN THESE MOST
North (0.5) Warranty Programme Vehicle Cost Delivery Profitable Profitable PROFITABLE SEGMENTS, Total industry Volumes America 1.4 Spend Delivery Times Market Share Market Share Current Segments
WITH NEW MODERN (0.2)
Reimagine Segments UK 1.1 LUXURY CARS EXPECTED 7 AGILE ORGANISATION & CULTURE * JLR Reimagine segments include SUV 3-5 Agile Organisation, Leadership, Capability, Culture and other future Jaguar target segments (0.4) TO DRIVE GROWTH IN Europe Source: IHS December 2020 1.4
THESE SEGMENTS. 8 INDIGITAL
0.9 Powering the transformation Overseas 2.3
9 RESPONSIBLE SPEND
Industry Volumes Sustaining and increasing cost efficiency Reimagine Segments * JLR Reimagine segments include SUV 3-5 and Each of the six pillars is led by a member of the Jaguar Land Rover Limited Board of Directors, supported by dedicated teams of experienced, other future Jaguar target segments senior leaders and 35 workstreams are already established. Refocus will drive further profitability in JLR's business, achieving £4 billion of
value within five years and 3% incremental EBIT margin by FY 25/26, on its journey to double-digit margins.
48 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 49

--- Page 28 ---
ESG approach Sustainability means positive impact We believe in delivering high quality vehicles with a focus on sustainability. Quality and sustainability are the driving force underlying our strategic actions, decisions and operations. We reduce our footprint by reusing and recycling parts under our take-back programme. JLR has set an ambitious target to achieve a net zero carbon position. Our employees are part of TATA group and we are committed to extend a safe, encouraging, and inclusive work environment for them to accelerate their career growth. Staying true to the legacy of our company, we constantly endeavour to support the communities we are part of. Our focus areas for community efforts are Health, Education and Employability and Rural Development. As the fight against COVID-19 pandemic continues, we extend our support in various forms including the production of
protective gear and medical kits.
TML
1.1 21,574 Lakh saplings Engines reused or recycled planted 52 Environment 58 Social - People, Supply chain partners, Community 66 Governance

--- Page 29 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Environment – TML Towards a low-carbon tomorrow We strive to deliver operational excellence by optimising resource efficiency Energy and GHG emissions management and minimising the negative impact on people, planet and communities. Our operations are carried out under the aegis of the foundational principles of Reduce, Recycle, Recover and Refurbish to deliver innovative and sustainable
mobility solutions globally.
GHG emissions and ensuring our
drive overall operational efficiency.
products also have reduced carbon
footprint plays a pivotal role.
2 2
SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2
FY 21 41,882 FY 21 2,43,125
FY 20 60,533 FY 20 2,66,200
FY 19 1,05,318 FY 19 3,85,002
SCOPE 3
31,781 tCO e 12,100 tCO e 1,598 tCO e 1,184 tCO e 2 2 2 2 Purchased goods and Employee commuting Waste generated in Franchise (TML downstream services* operations$ value chain)** 976 tCO e 698 tCO e 2,699 tCO e 69,515 tCO e 2 2 2 2 Upstream Leased Assets# Business travel Upstream transportation Fuel and energy related and distribution@ activities 42,86,029 tCO e 2 Use of sold products^ *Purchased Goods & Services : Based on the engagement with 30 suppliers in FY 21 @Upstream transportation & distribution: Based on the engagement with 30 suppliers in FY 21 $Waste generated in operations: Includes emissions from composting of biodegradable waste, incineration & landfill of hazardous waste #Upstream leased assets: Emissions from Company offices (rented) ^Use of sold products: Emissions from PVs **Franchises: Based on the engagement with 31 Channel partners in FY 21 52 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 53

--- Page 30 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Environment – TML Contd.
recycling of vehicles at the end of life
Fresh Water Withdrawal (ELV) stage.
levels in the community on the other hand. We engines were reused or recycled under our take-back programme,
planted 1.1 Lakh saplings (of indigenous varieties) resulting in revenue generation of ` 164 crore.
programmes aim to sensitise young children and
we have been able to reach to 0.91 Lakh persons.
FY 21 21,574
FY 20 33,615
91,000
FY 19 32,092
People sensitised on environmental issues 54 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 55

--- Page 31 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Environment – JLR Working for a net zero carbon position Electric vehicles and hybrid vehicles Contributing to circular economy Jaguar Land Rover's Reimagine strategy has three key themes modern luxury by design, true sustainability and a new benchmark in quality. We are focused on a sustainability-rich reimagination of modern luxury, unique customer experiences and positive societal impact. Our aim is to achieve net zero carbon
emissions across our supply chain, products and operations by 2039.
Velar. textile production scraps, can be transformed into a new yarn, with
We are exploring new technologies, with similar characteristics.
Hydrogen fuel-cell technology currently
form by end of the decade.
facilities in Slovakia, Brazil and Austria,
and all electric Jaguar I-PACE. We efficiently manage water and waste at our manufacturing plants.
2 waste generation. We have created rainwater harvesting ponds at our
15% as compared to FY 20.
Material Traceability plants and encourage water conservation techniques.
Consumption (Mwh) Consumption (M3)
FY 21 1,135,049 FY 21 1,336,479
FY 20 1,358,225 FY 20 1,720,965
FY 19 1,261,805 FY 19 1,406,350
Operational GHG Emissions (tCO e) 2 Operational SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 TOTAL* Waste (Tonnes) FY 21 121,149 FY 21 135,098 FY 21 256,246 We are investing in start-ups like Circulor, which helps us in material FY 20 148,753 FY 20 157,316 FY 20 306,070 traceability. We are able to trace our materials back to the source FY 21 27,638 of origin and ensure they are not associated with human rights FY 19 132,666 FY 19 170,743 FY 19 303,409 FY 20 37,043 issues such as child labour, slavery, theft of natural resources, * TOTAL = SCOPE 1 + 2 GHG Emissions (tCOe) environmental damage. FY 19 38,023 2 56 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 57

--- Page 32 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Social - People – TML Inculcating a culture of safety and Wheels of Love inclusion In 2021, we launched Wheels of Love, a holistic programme that supports new parents in their exciting journey while promoting a progressive Tata Motors Group treats people as one of the biggest assets and believe that the culture of care, inclusion and sensitisation
people play a pivotal role not just in everyday operations and supply chain, but within the organisation across levels.
ensure that we engage proactively with our employees, customers, supply chain
partners and create a better community for its people to prosper.
the brightest talent around the world and will continue to support and empower its people. It is committed to offer safe and healthy workspaces
for its people along with promoting diversity and equal opportunity for all.
INITIATIVES FOR A CONDUCIVE WORKPLACE FOR WOMEN
Diversity and inclusion In addition to offering all eligible female employees the legally mandated 182 days of paid maternity leave, we have put in place several initiatives to promote gender diversity Adoption leave Paid leave up to 90 calendar days post legally adoption of child We have introduced a comprehensive functional skill training Work-life balance programme at each plant. A National Employability Enhancement Flexible work hours, work from home or part-time work Mission (NEEM) agent conducts the training and deveopment sessions training and enhance knowledge. By monitoring the Celebrating motherhood improvement in the performance and the knowledge, we assesses Crèche facility
the effectiveness of the training and skill development exercise.
To help fulfil personal or professional aspirations
development and training needs of our corporate employees.
after a career break managers on strategy and technology. The programme covers four
At Tata Motors, we strive to create a conducive work environment.
instructors, and superiors. The Learning Management System (LMS)
others, and have a zero tolerance towards any form of harassments.
Our Diversity Council, at apex and unit levels, is tasked with increasing of females in of women in all management
development.
58 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 59

--- Page 33 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371)
Social - People – TML Contd.
Safety performance is reviewed by all levels of management. internal trainers from different functions have undergone the requisite
certification to deliver safety trainings. Videos and e-learning modules.
Training and awareness is considered as a key element of our
E-modules complement the overall safety training programme.
campaigns are organised to create awareness. for training. On the Health & Safety management system ISO 45001,
identified employees are trained as lead auditors and internal auditors.
specific procedures. Through Job Qualification, we ensure that every
employee is effectively trained beforehand.
certified for ISO 45001:2018 – Occupational Health & Safety
‘Zero Injury at Workplace’.
FY 20 0.09 Management System.
FY 19 0.10
We follow Dupont Safety Culture where safety is monitored at all
FY 18 0.08 important levels.
FY 17 0.15 − Safety standards and procedures Value chain partners
FY 16 0.17
− Contractors and vendors safety management
FY 15 0.20
− Safety observations We believe that to realize the true essence of sustainability it needs to be
FY 14 0.39
− Incident investigations
integrated not only in our own operations but also across our supply chain.
− Training and capability building
Safety considerations are taken care into account at the We rely on a huge network of suppliers and dealers.
the exposure to risks are eliminated, minimised and managed properly
*LTIFR has increased in FY 21 from last year owing to high employee to ensure logistics emissions reduction and to enhance locations in India were conducted.
to avoid any incidents. These standards and procedures are common
turnover, higher displacement of people from one job to another local employment.
of March 31, 2021, we have sensitised 237 channel partners and
are conducted regularly. People visiting the factories have to undergo in their sustainability performance was rewarded and recognised.
assessed 98 dealers.
a brief safety orientation session at the security control room, where Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we carried out only virtual
they are apprised of the hazards associated with our operations and workshops and assessments during the year under review.
are provided a list of ‘Dos and Don’ts’.
60 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 61

--- Page 34 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Social - People – JLR Inspiring workforce and communities To provide further community support Supporting communities during COVID-19 during COVID-19, we loaned New Defenders to front line emergency response for a better future together organisations. The fleet supported the British Red Cross in delivering medicine and food to vulnerable people, as well as helping the NHS Birmingham and Solihull Clinical Commissioning Group to deliver At Jaguar Land Rover we are passionate about its people and believes they are their COVID-19 vaccination programme
our most valuable asset. We are committed to fostering a diverse, inclusive culture across the Midlands region.
development and engineering, JLR’s people are at the forefront of technical our employees to support their local
communities during the festive season.
to local initiatives helping individuals and communities around their facilities, we
delivered to local food banks.
People-First Approach
communities across the globe.
373 258 8 MILLION ¥
JLR vehicles deployed globally Vehicles loaned to the Jointly donated by Jaguar Jaguar Land Rover Nurturing our people Throughout the year, our priority was health, to assist in the COVID-19 International Federation Land Rover China and Chery wellbeing and safety of our people. We emergency response of Red Cross and Red Jaguar Land Rover to Our people are our greatest asset and that has worked with Public Health England, and were Crescent societies. support local COVID-19 been evidenced through their response to the one of the first & largest business to introduce relief efforts global COVID-19 pandemic, both individually on-site COVID-19 testing. All of our facilities and supporting our efforts as a company. followed social distancing, hygiene and health monitoring protocols and every one of our UK employees has been equipped with reusable 1,00,000+ 1,000 UNITS
face coverings.
through the pandemic, to support their local
hospitals and community groups.
62 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 63

--- Page 35 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Social – Community Promoting inclusive and sustainable development Being a responsible corporate citizen, 'driving inclusive growth, social Health Education Employability equity, sustainable development and nation-building' is the commitment Tata Motors has made to society and to the communities it operates in. Our community health initiative, Arogya We aspire to drive holistic development Our Skill Development programme provides focuses on addressing malnutrition in among students at the secondary school training to unemployed youth under three children aged between 0-6 years. Apart level. Our targeted programmes include need- segments – auto trades, non-auto trades,
In the last year, the Company successfully demonstrated the ability to remain steadfast on this promise, despite challenging circumstances.
Tata Motors Limited We also facilitate curative health care infrastructure, technology and our innovation they find ready employment either in Tata
services for diagnosis, administration of capabilities, we made these programmes Motors' ecosystem or in the open market.
ensure access to safe drinking water through has been worked out with government groups of women and farmers and help
initiatives across India, providing relief to people during these challenging times.
knowledge, attitude and behaviour of the Class X board examination for government
family income by ₹1 lakh.
communities towards health. school students - from 55% in 2015 to 93%
in FY 20.
43% scored above 90% in their board
examinations; 81% qualified for JEE Mains;
59% for JEE Advanced and 80% of them got
into IITs, NIITs and other medical institutes.
be distributed to hospitals, vendors, health health tech service platform, to raise
Further, we set up two helpline numbers for areas in the vicinity of the company’s plants. of the programme resources.
provided the survivors with a platform to Rural Development in Palghar, an aspirational district with 100%
personal protective kits to truck drivers in group communities.
Narsapura (near Bangalore) and Bawal Programme
going through the same ordeal. Ahemadabad district, Gujarat.
(near Gurgaon).
64 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 65

--- Page 36 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-173) Financial Statements (174-371) Governance Reflecting transparency DIVERSE EXPERIENCES AND EXPERTISE OVERSIGHT OF THE EVALUATION OF EFFECTIVENESS
VALUE-CREATION PROCESS
Our Board is diversified in true sense with Adhering to the global best practices of people from varied experiences, ranging The Board plays a formidable role in directing internal controls and governance, our Board and accountability from automobile engineering, business & our value-creation process. The key areas of of Directors are also subject to evaluation and economics to banking & finance and legal focus are: the criteria that are used for evaluating their
affairs. Not only in terms of experience, but performance are enumerated here.
performance of the Company − Composition and structure
Governance is the building blocks on which the entire Tata Motors Group diversified Board.
N N A A Board experience
A N C 61 2
C R S years years
S
H AVERAGE AGE OF AVERAGE NUMBER OF YEARS
BOARD MEMBERS SERVED BY BOARD MEMBERS
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Mr. N Chandrasekaran Mr. Om Prakash Bhatt Ms. Hanne Sorensen Ms. Vedika Bhandarkar Board of Directors Non-executive Director Non-executive, Non-executive, Non-Executive, and Chairman Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Tata Motors Limited Jaguar Land Rover Members common to Automotive PLC both the Boards Mr. N Chandrasekaran R A H Mr. Om Prakash Bhatt Mr. N Chandrasekaran Mr. N Chandrasekaran
H C S
Ms. Hanne Sorensen Prof. Sir Ralf D Speth Mr. Thierry Bolloré
C
R Ms. Vedika Bhandarkar Mr. Andrew M. Robb Ms. Hanne Sorensen Mr. Kosaraju V Chowdary Ms. Hanne Sorensen Mr. Mitsuhiko Yamashita Mr. P B Balaji Mr. Thierry Bolloré Mr. Nasser Munjee Mr. Guenter Butschek Mr. Thierry Bolloré Mr. Mitsuhiko Yamashita Mr. Kosaraju V Chowdary Mr. Thierry Bolloré Mr. Guenter Butschek Non-Executive, Non-Executive, Non-Executive Director CEO and Managing Director Non-Independent Director Independent Director
BOARD COMMITTEES AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES
The Audit Committee reviews quarterly/annual financial statements, Committee formulates and recommends the CSR policy to the adequacy of internal control systems, internal audit reports and Board and monitors CSR budget, activities and expenditure. The 8 End ensure independence of auditors. The Nomination and Remuneration Risk Management Committee assists the Board in overseeing the Join Audio Stop Video Participants Committee provides various recommendations to the Board including risk management process, controls, risk tolerance, mitigation and the set up and composition of the Board and its Committees, the reviewing the Company’s risk governance. The Safety, Health and A Audit N Nomination and Remuneration S Stakeholders’ Relationship C Corporate Social Responsibility Remuneration Policy, HR Policies and culture. The Stakeholders’ Sustainability Committee reviews the Company’s performance on COMMITTEES R Risk Management* H Safety, Health and Sustainability Chairperson Member Relationship Committee reviews statutory compliances and services SHS aspects, including ESG and oversees the implementation of
relating to security holders, dividend payments and performance of relevant policies and strategies.
*Note: Group Chief Financial Officer, Mr. P B Balaji is a member of the Risk Management Committee as well.
Registrar and Transfer Agents. The Corporate Social Responsibility
Mr. M Yamashita attends as an Invitee at Audit Committee Meetings held for considering of Financial Statements.
Please visit www.tatamotors.com/about-us/leadership/ for the detailed profiles of the Board members.
66 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 Resilience and Rebound | 67

--- Page 37 ---
Board’s Report
TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED
The Directors present their Seventy Sixth Annual Report along with the Audited Financial Statement of Accounts for the FY 2020-21.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
(` in crores) Standalone* Consolidated
PARTICULARS
FY 2021 FY 2020 FY 2021 FY 2020
Revenue from operations 47,031.47 43,928.17 2,49,794.75 2,61,067.97 Total expenditure 44,629.62 43,510.11 2,14,012.84 2,37,153.67 Operating profit 2,401.85 418.06 35,781.91 23,914.30 Other Income 842.96 1,383.05 2,643.19 2,973.15 Profit before interest, foreign exchange, depreciation, amortization, 3,244.81 1,801.11 38,425.10 26,887.45 exceptional item and tax Finance cost 2,358.54 1,973.00 8,097.17 7,243.33 Profit before depreciation, amortization, exceptional item, foreign 886.27 (171.89) 30,327.93 19,644.12 exchange and tax Depreciation, amortization and product development/ engineering 4,589.25 4,205.53 28,773.34 25,613.92 Expenses Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) 1.67 239.00 (1,732.15) 1,738.74 Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (3,704.65) (4,616.42) 3,286.74 (7,708.54) Exceptional Items - (gain) / loss (net) (1,392.08) 2,510.92 13,761.02 2,871.44 Profit/(loss) before tax (2,312.57) (7,127.34) (10,474.28) (10,579.98) Tax expenses/ (credit) (net) 82.87 162.29 2,541.86 395.25 Profit/(loss) after tax (2,395.44) (7,289.63) (13,016.14) (10,975.23) Share of profit of joint venture and associates (net) - - (378.96) (1,000.00) Profit/(loss) for the year (2,395.44) (7,289.63) (13,395.10) (11,975.23) Other comprehensive income/(loss) 442.99 (378.72) 2,919.34 11,504.47 Total Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (1,952.45) (7,668.35) (10,475.76) (470.76)
Attributable to:
* These include the Company’s proportionate share of income and expenditure in its two joint operations, namely Tata Cummins Pvt. Ltd. and Fiat
India Automobiles Pvt. Ltd.
DIVIDEND The free cash flow (auto) was inflow of `5,317 crores in FY 2020-21
In view of losses for FY 2020-21, we regret that no dividend can be paid compared to outflow of `12,676 crores for FY 2019-20.
Refer Management Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) Report para
Act’) and the Rules framed thereunder.
Operating Results for detail analysis.
TRANSFER TO RESERVES
Tata Motors Limited recorded revenue from operations (including Due to losses in FY 2020-21, no amount has been transferred to joint operations) of `47,031 crores in FY 2020-21, 7.1% higher than Reserves. An amount of `134 crores was transferred from Debenture `43,928 crores in FY 2019-20. Loss before and after tax (including Redemption Reserve to Retained earnings. joint operations) for FY 2020-21 were at `2,313 crores and `2,395 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND STATE OF THE crores, respectively as compared to Loss before and after tax (including COMPANY’S AFFAIRS joint operations) of `7,127 crores and `7,290 crores, respectively for FY 2019-20. The financial performance improved mainly due to better Operating Results and Profits volumes, improved product mix, lower VME and cost savings offset
Tata Motors Limited consolidated revenue from operations was partially by commodity inflation and impact of COVID-19 pandemic.
compared to 8.5% in FY 2019-20. EBIT margin stood at 2.6% in FY year, primarily as a result of the impact of coronavirus affecting all key
2020-21 as compared to (0.04)% for FY 2019-20. Loss for the period regions except for China where wholesales grew 23.1% year on year.
68 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 38 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) per vehicle during the year. Profit before tax and exceptional items was 340 basis points from FY 2019-20. The Company posted its highest £662 million in FY 2020-21, significantly improved on the loss before ever sales in 9 years, for both the month as well as the quarter ended tax and exceptional items of £393 million in FY 2019-20, reflecting the March 31, 2021. For FY 2020-21, the business registered its highest higher EBIT as well as favourable revaluation of unrealised hedges ever annual sales in 8 years. The growth has come on the back of JCR’s foreign currency debt, partially offset by higher net finance phenomenal response received for the ‘New Forever’ range and series expense as a result of the increase in indebtedness. The announcement of transformative actions taken including, focused and agile marketing of our Reimagine Strategy in February 2021 triggered £1.5 billion of to improve the share of voice, channel management transformation to total exceptional charges in the fourth quarter comprising one-time earn dealer trust and revamp dealer profitability, introduction of variants non-cash write downs of £952 million for products that will not now of existing models with aspirational features at accessible price points be completed and £534 million of restructuring and other costs. After to expand the customer base, synchronization of daily retail, offtake exceptional charges, the loss before tax for FY 2020-21 was £861 and production enabling fast cash rotation for channel partners and for million, compared to the loss before tax of £422 million in FY 2019-20, Company, focused actions in identified micro-markets to achieve step which included £29 million of exceptional charges. jump in market share. In addition, expeditious ramping up of supplies by debottlenecking of capacities, sweating of in-house as well as supplier
VEHICLE SALES AND MARKET SHARES
end assets and augmenting of supplier capacity supported the growth.
6.1%. The Company’s market share (calculated on wholesales) increased
March 2021.
to 14.1% in FY 2020-21 from 12.7% in FY 2019-20.
Q4 FY 2020-21, led by M&HCVs and ILCVs with economy picking up
compared to the previous year.
gradually.
Amidst industry-wide shortage of semiconductors and steel price
61.8% w.r.t. previous year, largely impacted due to COVID-19 pandemic.
ramp up volumes and improve market share in H2 FY 2020-21. Overall
to previous year.
21, witnessed a decline of 22.6% with 2,41,668 units sold. All the four Refer MD&A para Tata Commercial Vehicles and Tata Passenger Vehicles
segments saw a decline in volume with the CV passenger segment being — Exports for detail analysis.
the worst hit. TML CV Business improved its Net promoter score (‘NPS’),
JAGUAR LAND ROVER (‘JLR’)
a customer loyalty and satisfaction measurement, from a high base of 65 in FY 2019-20 to 68 in FY 2020-21. JLR retail sales were 4,39,588 vehicles in FY 2020-21, down 69,071 vehicles (13.6%) year-on-year. The decline in retails was primarily the Refer MD&A para Commercial Vehicles in India for detail analysis. result of the initial COVID-19 lockdown impacting the first quarter, with Passenger Vehicles (‘PV’) a recovery in sales thereafter. Retail sales in China increased by 23.4% year-on-year, as the region continued to recover strongly from the Domestic PV industry witnessed a decline of 2% in FY 2020-21 as impact of COVID-19 following easing of strict lockdown measures from compared to FY 2019-20. Lockdown imposed by Government of India to early 2020. Retails across all other regions declined significantly year- arrest the spread of COVID-19 had deeply impacted the Industry which on-year, including Overseas (26.8%), Europe (26.0%), the UK (22.2%) de-grew by 78% in Q1 FY 2020-21. Markets started opening up post and North America (14.3%), as strict social distancing measures were partial lifting of lockdown in May 2020. Post unlock 1.0, Industry has enforced through the first quarter and subsequently reintroduced in witnessed a consistent growth on account of pent-up demand, increasing many markets through the third and fourth quarters. Furthermore, preference for personal mobility, good traction from rural sector owing COVID-19 impacted sales of every model in FY 2020-21, apart from the to good rabbi harvest post festive season, new launches and continued newly introduced Land Rover Defender which retailed a total of 45,244 financing support with attractive interest rates and innovative financing vehicles in FY 2020-21. JLR wholesales (excluding the China joint
schemes.
venture) were 3,47,632 vehicles in FY 2020-21, down 27.0% compared
The Company registered growth of 68.5% in FY 2020-21 vis-à-vis to FY 2019-20.
(calculated on wholesales) for FY 2020-21 was 8.2%, an increase of
volumes.
Resilience and Rebound | 69

--- Page 39 ---
Some of the key highlights of FY 2020-21 were: amount of `2,602.51 crores has been received and is to be utilized for repayment of debt, meeting future funding requirements and other • T he new Land Rover Defender went on sale at the beginning of
general purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries.
V8 derivative also launched this fiscal year. basis, secured, listed, redeemable, non- convertible Debentures (NCDs)
• T he new Land Rover Defender won a number of awards during aggregating `1,000 crores.
the year including the coveted 2021 World Car Design of the year, FINANCE
Top Gear car of the year and Production Car design of the year.
• A number of 2021 model year upgrades were launched in the pandemic, the Company and JLR maintained its finances prudently,
year including special edition Range Rover and Range Rover meeting the business needs as well as ensuring reduction of net debt.
eight with plug-in hybrid, 11 with mild hybrid and the all-electric
bn).
• P roduction of a 6 cylinder Ingenium 3.0-litre diesel engine
certain revisions in credit ratings.
(including with mild hybrid technology) started during the year at
the EMC in Wolverhampton (UK). Refer MD&A para Liquidity and Capital Resources for detail analysis.
• N ew Jaguar F-TYPE heritage 60 edition launched to celebrate the Material Changes and Commitment affecting the Financial Position
diamond anniversary of the legendary Jaguar E-TYPE.
NHS, deployment of over 350 vehicles to support the emergency this pandemic has been explained in the MD&A, which forms part of the
responses, provision of extensive onsite testing and the ongoing Annual Report.
NHS Workplace Vaccination Programme pilot at the Solihull
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT
plant.
Report. Pursuant to Section 129(3) of the Act, salient features of the
Vehicles — Exports for detail analysis.
Refer MD&A para Tata and other brand vehicles - Vehicles Financing URL: https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/annual-reports/
for detail analysis.
SUBSIDIARY, JOINT ARRANGEMENTS AND ASSOCIATE
SHARE CAPITAL COMPANIES
The Company in FY 2019-20 allotted 20,16,23,407 Ordinary Shares The Company has 103 subsidiaries (14 direct and 89 indirect), 9 associate at a price of `150 per Ordinary Shares aggregating to `3,024 crores companies, 4 joint ventures and 2 joint operations as at March 31, 2021,
and 23,13,33,871 Convertible Warrants (“Warrants”), each carrying as disclosed in the accounts.
`150 per Warrant (“Warrant Price”), aggregating to `3,470 crores on a During FY 2020-21, the following changes have taken place in subsidiary
preferential basis to Tata Sons Private Limited and an amount equivalent / associates / joint venture companies:
the Warrant Holder against each Warrant pursuant to exercise of the transfer from Jayem Automotive Private Limited w.e.f August 11,
options attached to the Warrants and 23,13,33,871 Ordinary Shares 2020.
70 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 40 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) • I n-Car Ventures Limited [Name changed from Lenny Insurance INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND ADEQUACY Limited w.e.f. February 2, 2021]. 100% shareholding transferred The Company’s internal control systems are commensurate with the from InMotion Ventures Limited to Jaguar Land Rover Holdings nature of its business, the size and complexity of its operations and such
Limited on February 18, 2021.
• S hareholding of InMotion Ventures Limited in InMotion Ventures
are adequate.
15% w.e.f December 1, 2020. Refer MD&A para Internal Control Systems and their Adequacy for
• T ata Technologies Europe Limited, 100% shareholding detail analysis.
transferred from INCAT International PLC to Tata Technologies
HUMAN RESOURCES
Pte. Limited (Singapore) w.e.f. May 27, 2020.
• E scenda Engineering AB name changed to Tata Technologies Refer MD&A para Human Resources / Industrial Relations for detail
Nordics AB w.e.f. November 2, 2020. 100% shareholding analysis.
transferred from Tata Technologies Europe Limited (UK) to Tata Diversity and Inclusion
Technologies Pte. Limited (Singapore) w.e.f. August 26, 2020.
Diversity and Inclusion at workplace helps nurture innovation, by
• Cambric GmbH was liquidated w.e.f September 17, 2020.
Law Tribunal. After meeting the pre-conditions prescribed under the nurturing their career journeys, to help the Company build a pipeline of
Scheme, the Scheme became effective on April 1, 2021. women leaders in near future.
Transfer of Passenger Vehicles Undertaking to TML Business The Company employed 5.48% women employees in FY 2020-21
Analytics Services Limited: The Company proposes to transfer and vis- à-vis 5.79% in FY 2019-20.
shares by writing down the securities premium account in part, which Committee is in place for all works and offices of the Company to
is lost or is unrepresented by available assets, with a corresponding redress complaints received regarding sexual harassment.
has received No Objection from the Stock Exchanges, Securities workshops across locations. In addition, certain employees were
Exchange Board of India and requisite approvals from the Company’s covered through e-module program of the Company.
Scheme’)
authorities are under process.
were no Options granted or vested or any shares issued on vesting
subsidiary companies.
Regulations with regard to the Scheme is available on the Company’s
RISK MANAGEMENT
website URL: https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/ESOP/ The Risk Management Committee is constituted to frame, implement and monitor the risk management plan of the Company. Particulars of Employees Disclosure pertaining to remuneration and other details as required The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk under Section 197(12) of the Act read with Rule 5(1) of the Companies management throughout the organisation. Through an Enterprise Risk (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014 Management programme, our business units and corporate functions
is annexed to the Report as Annexure-1.
Resilience and Rebound | 71

--- Page 41 ---
said Statement is also open for inspection. Any member interested in Company, which could be availed by its employees and their family obtaining a copy of the same may write to the Company Secretary. members free of cost. The objective of said program was to support None of the employees listed in the said Annexure are related to any employees and dependents to cope up with the physical and mental Director of the Company. challenges created by COVID-19. 670 employees contacted counsellors to address their issues. On-line sessions on emotional wellbeing were
BUSINESS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT
organized and approx. 3400 employees were benefitted. Robust Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the surveillance diagnostic testing program with Rapid Antigen Test and Business Responsibility Report (BRR) on initiatives taken from an RT-PCR for employees were carried out and maintained throughout environmental, social and governance perspective, in the prescribed pandemic within Company’s Plant premises. Also several Company’s format is available as a separate section of the Annual Report and is HR policies on sickness benefits, Insurance benefits and leave policy also available on the Company’s website URL: https://www.tatamotors. were modified suitably in view of helping employees and dependents
com/investors/annual-reports/ during epidemic.
SAFETY & HEALTH – PERFORMANCE & INITIATIVES
The Company also collaborated with several Government hospitals, In continuation of Safety Excellence Journey at the Company, to provide COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to all its eligible employees, the Organization achieved its 2nd consecutive Fatality Free Year in including third party contract employees. Due to Company’s said FY 2020-21. initiative, till date approx. 10,000 people are vaccinated, which includes its employee and their family members, ex-employees, employees of During the year several proactive initiatives were undertaken by the Service Providers and employees of Suppliers. The Company’s medical Company viz. proactive monitoring of Leading Indicators (also known teams located at Plants supported employees and their dependents as Proactive Safety Index), focused training sessions on Risk perception during COVID-19 pandemic by arranging beds/ medicines in hospitals and behaviour based safety, I-care for shop floor employees and Safety and co-ordinated for plasma donation. The Company also donated felt leadership for middle management. The Company also focused on medical equipment to Government healthcare providers through CSR identification of Critical to Safety workstations to target areas with high
program.
In FY 2020-21, the Company’s 7 Manufacturing Plants in India,
off-site sources.
the Company at its Pantanagar Plant enhanced its in-house RE capacity
Service and Warehouse teams.
by 2MWp by rooftop Solar PV installation.
facilities available for help by the Company. The management stayed in
to Landfill’ status for all its manufacturing operations.
72 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 42 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) activities during the year in the format prescribed in the Companies All Independent Directors of the Company have given declarations under (CSR Policy) Amendment Rules, 2021 are set out in Annexure - 2 of this Section 149(7) of the Act, that they meet the criteria of independence Report. The policy is available on Company’s website at URL: https:// as laid down under Section 149(6) of the Act and Regulation investors. tatamotors.com/pdf/csr-policy.pdf 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. In terms of Regulation 25(8) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the Independent Directors have confirmed
CONSERVATION OF ENERGY, TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION
that they are not aware of any circumstance or situation, which exists or
& FOREIGN EXCHANGE EARNING AND OUTGO
may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their ability The information on conservation of energy, technology absorption to discharge their duties with an objective independent judgement and and foreign exchange earnings and outgo stipulated under Section without any external influence. The Company has received confirmation 134(3)(m) of the Act, read along with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) from all the existing Independent Directors of their registration on Rules, 2014, is annexed herewith as Annexure - 3. the Independent Directors Database maintained by the Institute of ANNUAL RETURN Corporate Affairs pursuant to Rule 6 of the Companies (Appointment and
Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014.
tatamotors.com/investors/annual-reports/ repute. They fulfill the conditions specified in Act as well as the Rules
made thereunder and are independent of the management.
DIRECTORS AND KEY MANAGERIAL PERSONNEL
Key Managerial Personnel Appointment / Re-appointment In terms of Section 203 of the Act, the Key Managerial Personnel The Board of Directors on the recommendation of Nomination and
(KMPs) of the Company during FY 2020-21 are:
5 years w.e.f October 27, 2020. He shall hold office as Additional Company Secretary certifying compliance with conditions of Corporate
Director upto the date of the forthcoming AGM and is eligible for Governance is part to this Report.
and Non-Executive (Independent) Director on the Board w.e.f refer to the Report on Corporate Governance, which forms part of this
September 16, 2020. Mr Yamashita underwent change in designation Annual Report.
from Non-Executive (Independent) Director to Non-Executive
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD
(Non Independent) Director w.e.f October 27, 2020.
The Committees of the Board focus on certain specific areas and make
Dr Ralf Speth (DIN:03318908) consequent to retirement from services informed decisions in line with the delegated authority.
tendered his resignation vide letter dated October 27, 2020 as the The following Committees constituted by the Board function according
Non-Executive (Non Independent) Director of the Company. The to their respective roles and defined scope:
Central Government and shareholders’ approval. under review, all recommendations made by the various committees
have been accepted by the Board.
The disclosures required pursuant to Regulation 36 of the SEBI Listing
BOARD EVALUATION
Regulations and the SS-2 on General Meeting are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), forming part of the Annual Report. The annual evaluation process of the Board of Directors, Individual Directors and Committees was conducted in accordance with the Independent Directors
provisions of the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Resilience and Rebound | 73

--- Page 43 ---
basis of criteria such as the composition of committees, effectiveness • I ndependence - A Director will be considered independent if of committee meetings, etc. The above criteria are broadly based on he/she meets the criteria laid down in Section 149(6) of the Act, the Guidance Note on Board Evaluation issued by the Securities and the Rules framed thereunder and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI
Exchange Board of India. Listing Regulations.
The Board and the NRC reviewed the performance of individual Directors The Directors affirm that the remuneration paid to Directors, KMPs and
on the basis of criteria such as the contribution of the individual Director employees is as per the Remuneration Policy of the Company.
URL: https:// investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/directors-appointment-
in meetings, etc.
In a separate meeting of Independent Directors, performance of
VIGIL MECHANISM
Non- Independent Directors and the Board as a whole was evaluated.
reasonably perform their duties. The above evaluations were then serious concern for the Company. The role of the employees in pointing
discussed in the Board meeting and performance evaluation of out such violations of the TCOC cannot be undermined.
Refer Report on Corporate Governance para on Familiarisation
Chairperson of the Audit Committee of the Company for redressal.
Programme.
POLICY ON DIRECTORS’ APPOINTMENT AND Committee. In addition to the above, the employee also has an option to
REMUNERATION approach the Chief Ethics Counsellor (CEC).
disclosed hereunder and in the Report on Corporate Governance, which
AUDIT
is a part of this Report.
the Board based on the industry and strategy of the Company. The
the conclusion of Seventy Seventh AGM to be held in the year 2022.
they are not disqualified and continue to be eligible to act as the Auditor
condition and compliance requirements.
of the Company.
appointment of statutory auditors at the ensuing AGM. The Statutory
nomination to the Board.
Auditors were present in the last AGM.
independence of a Director
contains an emphasis of matter as under:
2021 to March 31, 2021, exceeds the prescribed limits under
Directors, the key features of which are as follows:
Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Act, by `1.89 crores.
• Positive Attributes - Apart from the duties of Directors as
and Managing Director is a non-resident.
independent judgment. The Directors are also expected to abide directors aggregating `1.70 crores is subject to approval of the
by the respective Code of Conduct as applicable to them. shareholders.
74 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 44 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) The management’s response is as follows: OTHER DISCLOSURES The term of Mr Guenter Butschek, CEO and Managing Director, has PARTICULARS OF CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS been extended from February 15, 2021 to June 30, 2021. Pursuant WITH RELATED PARTIES to the provisions of Section 197 read with Schedule V of the Act, All contracts/ arrangements/ transactions entered by the Company Members’ approval at the upcoming AGM is sought for re-appointment during the FY 2020-21 with related parties were on an arm’s length as CEO and Managing Director and payment of minimum remuneration basis and in the ordinary course of business. There were no material to Mr Butschek as per the terms of his appointment and remuneration Related Party Transactions (RPTs) undertaken by the Company during for the period February 15, 2021 upto the remainder of his current the year that require shareholders’ approval under Regulation 23(4) of tenure in case of no profits / inadequate profits for FY 2021-22. The the SEBI Listing Regulations or Section 188 of the Act. The approval resolution approving the above proposal is being placed for approval of of the Audit Committee was sought for all RPTs. Certain transactions
the Members in the Notice for this AGM. which were repetitive in nature were approved through omnibus route.
In view of the valuable services being rendered and significant All the transactions were in compliance with the applicable provisions
contributions of the Non-Executive Directors (including Independent of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
the Board of Directors on the recommendations of the NRC, approved Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 in Form AOC-2, the same is not
payment of remuneration to the Non-Executive Directors (including provided.
remuneration to be paid for FY 2020-21 are captured in the Corporate (subject to members’ approval) and reimbursement of expenses, as
Governance Report. The resolution approving the above proposal is applicable.
Branch Audit As per Section 186, the details of Loans, Guarantees or Investments
The resolution authorizing the Board of Directors to appoint Branch made during FY 2020-21 are given below:
Name of Companies Nature of Transactions Loans Investments
the Members in the Notice for this AGM.
year ending March 31, 2022. The Board on recommendations of the
liabilities. Thus, amount paid as subvention.
being placed for approval of the Members in the Notice for this AGM. the Company to the investors after 4 years and up to 6 years from the
deemed date of allotment.
for appointment. its subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates companies and other body
corporates and persons.
The cost accounts and records of the Company are duly prepared and
maintained as required under Section 148(1) of Act.
Resilience and Rebound | 75

--- Page 45 ---
DEPOSITS FROM PUBLIC Institute of Company Secretaries of India and that such systems are
adequate and operating effectively.
sheet, except for unclaimed and unpaid deposits pertaining to previous of Directors of the Company have formulated a Dividend Distribution
years. Policy. The Policy is also available on the Company’s website URL:
by the internal, statutory, cost, secretarial auditors and external / unpaid amounts / shares to the Investor Education and Protection
agencies, including audit of internal controls over financial reporting Fund (IEPF)’ for detail analysis.
by the Statutory Auditors and the reviews performed by Management
GENERAL
and the relevant Board Committees, including the Audit Committee, the Board is of the opinion that the Company’s internal financial controls Your Directors state that no disclosure or reporting is required in were adequate and effective during FY 2020-21. respect of the following matters as there were no transactions on these
items during the year under review:
Members attention is drawn to the Statement on Contingent
material departures;
Liabilities and Commitments in the Notes forming part of the
b) t hey have selected such accounting policies and have applied Financial Statement.
reasonable and prudent, so as to give a true and fair view of the
or the Board.
of the loss of the Company for that period; • T here has been no change in the nature of business of the
Company.
f) t hey have devised proper systems to ensure compliance with the associates for their continuous support to the Company and their
provisions of all applicable laws and such systems are adequate confidence in its management.
Refer MD&A para on ‘Internal Control Systems and their Adequacy’ for
detail analysis.
N CHANDRASEKARAN
SECRETARIAL STANDARDS
Chairman The Company has devised proper systems to ensure compliance with Mumbai, May 18, 2021 DIN: 00121863 the provisions of all applicable Secretarial Standards issued by the 76 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 46 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Annexure – 1 Details of Remuneration of Directors, KMPs and Employees and comparatives [Pursuant to Section 197 and Rule 5(1) of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014] 1. a. T he ratio of the remuneration of each Director to the median remuneration of the employees of the Company and the percentage
increase in remuneration of each Director, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary in the FY 2020-21:
11 Mr Hoshang Sethna Company Secretary N.A 3.67
Notes:
(1) As a Policy, Mr N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving commission from the Company and hence not stated.
or sitting fees for attending Board and committee meetings of the Company in view of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and
Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC.
(3) No Commission was paid to Mr Bhatt, Ms Bhandarkar and Ms Sorensen for FY 2019-20. Hence, percentage increase in remuneration is
not comparable and not stated.
(4) Appointed as an Independent Director of the Company with effect from October 27, 2020.
(5) Appointed as an Independent Director of the Company with effect from September 16, 2020, but underwent change in designation to
Non-executive & Non-Independent Director with effect from October 27, 2020.
any remuneration or sitting fees for attending Board and Committee meetings of the Company in view of his role as Chief Executive
Officer and Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC.
October 27, 2020 respectively. Since their term was for part of the year, ratio of remuneration to median remuneration and percentage
increase in remuneration are not comparable and hence not stated.
Performance and Long Term Incentives, which will be accrued post approval by the Board of Directors. Excluding above, the increase for
the year ended March 31, 2021 is 7.7%, due to foreign exchange fluctuation between EURO and INR.
General Meeting
b) A break-up of median remuneration for employees is given below:
Resilience and Rebound | 77

--- Page 47 ---
2. The number of permanent employees on the rolls of Company as at March 31, 2021: 26,254 3. A verage percentile increase already made in the salaries of employees other than the managerial personnel in the last financial year and its comparison with the percentile increase in the managerial remuneration and justification thereof and point out if there are any exceptional
circumstances for increase in the managerial remuneration:
Mr Guenter Butschek 24.89*
Note:
general and their individual performance for the relevant year is measured against major performance areas which are closely aligned to
Company’s objectives.
and Long Term Incentives, which will be accrued post approval by the Board of Directors. Excluding above, the increase for the year ended
March 31, 2021 is 7.7%, due to foreign exchange fluctuation between EURO and INR.
4. Affirmation that the remuneration is as per the remuneration policy of the Company:
The remuneration for MD/KMP/rest of the employees is as per the remuneration policy of the Company.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
N CHANDRASEKARAN
Chairman Mumbai, May 18, 2021 DIN: 00121863 78 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 48 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
ANNEXURE - 2
Annual Report on CSR Activities [Pursuant to Section 135 of the Companies Act, 2013 and the Companies (Corporate Social Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014] 1. A brief outline of the Company’s CSR policy: and utilization of financial and human resources, engaging 1. Overview: in like-minded stakeholder partnerships for higher outreach
benefitting more lives.
(i) O utline of CSR Policy - As an integral part of our commitment
to good corporate citizenship, we at Tata Motors believe in Weblink for Tata Motors India CSR Policy: https://investors.
to respect the interests of and be responsive towards our
drinking water projects; 2. Vidyadhanam (Education):
underprivileged and marginalized; focused on inter alia the
school infrastructure improvement; co-curricular activities;
for relevant target groups, ensuring diversity and giving
agriculture & allied trades; 4. Vasundhara (Environment):
striving to achieve greater impacts, outcomes and outputs of
administration, Palghar, Maharahstra.
our CSR projects and programmes by judicious investment
2. Composition of CSR Committee:
Name of Director Designation (Nature of Directorship)
No.
4 Mr. Guenter Butschek Member (CEO & Managing Director) 2 2
* appointed as member of the CSR Committee w.e.f January 4, 2021.
financial year, if any
Weblink for Tata Motors India CSR Policy:
7. ( a) Two percent of average net profit of the company as per
4. P rovide the details of Impact assessment of CSR projects carried section 135(5): Not applicable in view of loss.
(attach the report). activities of the previous financial years: Not applicable in
view of the loss.
I mpact assessment is to be carried out for projects above 1 crore/
per year. In year 2020-21 none of the CSR projects were falling ( c) A mount required to be set off for the financial year, if any:
Resilience and Rebound | 79

--- Page 49 ---
8. (a) CSR amount spent or unspent for the financial year:
Total Amount Total Amount transferred to
as per second proviso to section 135(5).
Spent for the Financial Year.
Amount Date of transfer Name of the Fund Amount Date of transfer.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Location of the project.
No). (` in Year project as
VII to the Act. (Yes/No).
crore) (` in crore) per Section
CSR
135(6) Name Registration (` in crore)
number.
Uttar Pradesh - Palghar, Thane Trust, MITCON Foundation,
West Bengal Shillong, West Jaintia Ador welding academy pvt.
80 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 50 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Location of the project.
No). (` in Year project as
VII to the Act. (Yes/No).
crore) (` in crore) per Section
CSR
135(6) Name Registration (` in crore)
number.
Resilience and Rebound | 81

--- Page 51 ---
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Location of the project.
No). (` in Year project as
VII to the Act. (Yes/No).
crore) (` in crore) per Section
CSR
135(6) Name Registration (` in crore)
number.
Kendra
( c) Details of CSR amount spent against other than ongoing projects for the financial year:
State District Year (in project as Name Registration
(in `Crore). (Yes/No).
` Crore.). per Section number.
135(6) (in
` Crore).
82 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 52 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
S r.
Particular Amount (` in crores)
no.
(v) Amount available for set off in succeeding financial years [(iii)-(iv)] Nil
9. (a) Details of Unspent CSR amount for the preceding three financial years:
Year (in `). Name of Amount years. (in `)
(in `) Date of transfer.
the Fund (in `).
1 Nil.
(b) Details of CSR amount spent in the financial year for ongoing projects of the preceding financial year(s):
no Duration. the Project reporting Financial reporting Financial
was Commenced. Ongoing.
(in `). Year (in `). Year. (in `)
1 Nil.
All our projects are for one year timeline i.e. relevant for that particular year.
10. In case of creation or acquisition of capital asset, furnish the details relating to the asset so created or acquired through CSR spent in the
financial year (asset-wise details).
(b) Amount of CSR spent for creation or acquisition of capital asset: Nil
( c) D etails of the entity or public authority or beneficiary under whose name such capital asset is registered, their address etc:
Resilience and Rebound | 83

--- Page 53 ---
ANNEXURE - 3
Particulars of Conservation of energy, Technology absorption and Foreign Exchange Earnings and Outgo [Pursuant to Section 134 (3) (m) of the Act read with Rule 8 of the Companies (Accounts) Rules, 2014 A. CONSERVATION OF ENERGY (ii) T he steps taken by the Company for utilizing alternate
sources of energy:
consumption of non-renewable fossil fuels, energy productivity, (solar) generation capacity in FY 2020-21, which brings the total
climate change mitigation and reduction in operational costs. The installed capacity to:
The Company also sources off-site renewable energy at its
Projects in FY 2020-21 include:
manufacturing divisions. continue to help offset greenhouse gas emissions in the coming
years.
• Chinchwad Plant: Reduction in compressed air loss used to 2
crores.
convey sand, Reduction in number of pumps in AI foundry,
Stopping of paint booth conveyor in idle running conditions. (iii) T he capital investment on energy conservation equipment:
• Maval Foundry: Reduction of pumping losses by In FY 2020-21, the Company has invested `243 lakhs in various
providing level sensors to storage tank and delivery valve energy conservation projects.
adjustments, Optimization of compressed air pressure Awards / Recognition received during the year is as below:
during non-production shifts.
• Lucknow Plant: Controlled use of canteen utilities, training “Excellent Energy Efficient Unit” at the CII National Award for
centres, offices aligned to the plant operational condition, Excellence in Energy Management, Hyderabad, August 2020.
paint shop, HVAC frequency reduction at paint shop. Conservation Award (NECA) 2020, by the Bureau of Energy
Efficiency (BEE).
production hours in paint shop. Energy Conservation Awards by CII- Eastern Region, Kolkata in
August 2020.
HVLS fans. the CII National Award for Excellence in Energy Management,
Hyderabad, August 2020.
compressed air line, Optimization of compressed air supply CII National Award for Excellence in Energy Management,
during non-production shifts. Hyderabad, August 2020.
84 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 54 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) B. TECHNOLOGY ABSORPTION, ADAPTATION AND (i) E fforts made towards innovation, technology INNOVATION development, absorption and adaptation I n the recent past the Company has had significant thrust and • I n order to foster innovation the Company has robust deployed its R & D focus towards electric mobility comprising programs in place to encourage innovation in work of Battery Electric Vehicles (BEVs), Hybrids and Fuel Cell place. For over a decade now, we have been running Technologies. Amongst other technologies, the prototypes of fuel annual Imagineering and Innovista competitions cell buses are under technology evaluation. internally to encourage individuals and teams to showcase their agility, prowess and innovative mind- In FY 2020-21, the Company prioritized its electric vehicles set towards solving problems, enhancing efficiencies development capabilities and today is one of the frontrunners and delighting customers while competing for in this industry. The Company developed a comprehensive
handsome rewards and recognitions.
ecosystem—from charging infrastructure, battery cells, battery Planning and Development cycle to manage its
packs and electric motors, to financing options, customized for engineering and technology initiatives.
Artificial Intelligence, Augmented reality, Virtual
emissions which mostly originate during the operational phase.
conserve energy and thereby has significant impact towards to sustain the customer, market and environmental
product sustainability. demand.
hurdle, but to enhance and upgrade the entire product portfolio Tiago, Tigor, Nexon, Harrier and Altroz are already
with technologies and features and further delight our customers compliant with the new pedestrian safety laws.
IPR Generation
comfort and safety.
national jurisdiction and grant details include national
technology interventions.
W ith sustainability being part of its core agenda, the Company
credible acknowledgements.
website as proactive compliance to ELV regulations. This meets over the past two calendar years (2018 and
with upcoming regulation on End of Life vehicles and the Company 2017).
is the first Indian OEM to have this information in public domain.
I n the PV arena, the Company introduced the new Altroz iTurbo, Patents Portfolio for a Large (Manufacturing/
powered by new 1.2L Petrol iTurbo engine. The Tata Nexon EV was Engineering) Organization’ in December 2020.
“Future Ready” portfolio for BS6 in early FY 2021 and amongst a technology by timely having a basket of appropriate
huge portfolio spread across SCV, ILCV, Buses and MHCV. emerging technology solutions.
Resilience and Rebound | 85

--- Page 55 ---
• U sing digital technology, design, and ergonomics to take - G olden Peacock Innovative Product/Service Award vehicular safety to the next level. This has led to the for Tata Urban Electric Bus – Zero Emission Urban
emergence of cars with global NCAP 4 and 5-star safety People Mover.
has redefined the future of Indian transportation by
for enhanced TCO school bus “City Ride 4SPCR”.
the Year, EV Solution Provider of the Year, Telematics – 4
below:
wheeler, and Smart Technology Innovation of the Year –
- T ata Altroz won Best Indian car 2021 award by Ziptron technology.
• T he Company bagged 3rd time in a row the ‘The Economic
2020’ award.
- T ata Nexon won ‘Compact Sport Utility Vehicle’ in March 2021 for enhancing Pre-consumer Waste Nylon
under & Tata Intra won ‘Business Truck’ under for Automobile Structural Applications bagged.
• T he Company has bagged the prestigious National
Design Excellence award 2020.
- T ata Tiago won the Motor Vikatan 2021 Entry level conservation measures, instituted by the Bureau of
Hatchback of the year. Energy Efficiency (BEE).
Major technology absorption projects undertaken during the last year includes:
Sr.
Technology for Status
No.
12 Waste Heat Operated HVAC system Under development
Major technology imports includes:
Sr.
Technology for Year of Import Status
No.
5 Advanced Power Systems Engineering test facility for BS VI and beyond for all kinds of 2019-20 Implemented
fuels including hybrids and EVs.
(iii) Specific areas in which R & D carried out by the Company application specific fuel efficiency and to deliver high
• The Company is mainly focused on specific areas of performance and reliable products.
86 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 56 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) developing technology for enhancing Vehicle Safety the outreach of already deployed/sustenance competencies
such Advance Driver Assistance System (ADAS), driver development for new technology adaptation & integration.
addressed through our various academies like Product Leadership
(ATC) and Hill Start Aid (HSA) for range of trucks.
I nitiatives towards digital product development systems for road are planned every year based on present skill gap analysis & are
to lab approach & enhanced productivity monitored through Learning Advisory Council (LAC).
product development process. Achievements through various
E electrified, and S safe & S shared mobility).
initiatives are listed below:
Endurance braking regulation) are on the cards. These regulations
onboarding onto CVP in March 2021.
are the necessities to remain in business and keep us going.
various alternative fuels such as Ethanol E10 / E20, Bio-diesel
at right time, to help them to verify data and take decisions.
blends, LNG, H-CNG, BEV’s, Fuel cell etc.
to eliminate user awareness issues and non-value added C ompany’s focus is going to be building Technology, Capability,
administration and support activities. scale & capacities in R&D to able to ride the emerging trends.
and create superior offerings for the customer. With keen eye for
configure the product for the customer.
design process. Trained AI models help in synergy between solutions, exceeding customer expectations and creating highly
physical and digital simulations and better co-relation. engaged work force.
layout, material flow and throughput before production Expenditure in Foreign Currency 2,159.77
ramp-up.
Resilience and Rebound | 87

--- Page 57 ---
ANNEXURE - 4
FORM No. MR-3 Secretarial Audit Report For the Financial Year ended March 31, 2021 (Pursuant to section 204 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013 and rule No. 9 of the Companies (Appointment and Remuneration of Managerial Personnel) Rules, 2014) To, the Companies Act and dealing with client; (Not applicable to the
The Members, Company during the audit period);
the corporate conducts/statutory compliances and expressing our opinion
during the audit period).
thereon.
(vi) Other laws applicable specifically to the Company namely:
Based on our verification of the Company’s books, papers, minute books,
forms and returns filed and other records maintained by the Company, to 1. T he Motor Vehicle Act, 1988 and the Rules made thereunder.
and authorised representatives during the conduct of secretarial audit, the
of the following:
of Corporate Affairs and Securities and Exchange Board of India warranted Secretaries of India with respect to board and general
due to the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we hereby report that in our meetings.
compliance mechanism in place to the extent, in the manner and subject to India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements)
the reporting made hereinafter. Regulations, 2015.
and other records made available to us and maintained by the Company for with the provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations, Guidelines,
the financial year ended on 31st March, 2021 according to the provisions of: Standards etc. mentioned above.
in respect of the steps taken by the Company to prevent leakages and
made thereunder;
(iii) The Depositories Act, 1996 and the Regulations and Bye-laws framed adherence of all applicable regulatory and legal requirements. There
thereunder; have been no further communication after November 20, 2020.
(a) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Substantial CEO and Managing Director is a non-resident the said reappointment is
Acquisition of Shares and Takeovers) Regulations, 2011; subject to the approval of Central Government.
(b) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of The remuneration payable to non-executive independent directors
Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015; aggregating `1.70 crores is subject to approval of the shareholders.
( c) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue of Capital and We further report that:
the composition of the Board of Directors that took place during the
Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014;
period under review were carried out in compliance with the provisions
(e) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (Issue and Listing of of the Act.
Debt Securities) Regulations, 2008;
88 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 58 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) notice for which necessary consents have been sought at the meeting, 4) T he Company has filed a Scheme of Arrangement with National and a system exists for seeking and obtaining further information Company Law Tribunal for the purpose of transfer its Passenger and clarifications on the agenda items before the meeting and for Vehicles Undertaking pursuant to a Scheme of Arrangement meaningful participation at the meeting. as a going concern on a slump sale basis to TML Business Analytics Services Limited (‘TBASL’), a step down subsidiary,
Decisions at the Board Meetings were taken unanimously.
We further report that during the audit period the Company had
Scheme 2018’.
pursuance of the above referred laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, 5) T he Company issued 8.80% rated listed redeemable secured
standards etc. non convertible debenture aggregating `1,000 crores.
the applicable laws. 1,16,000 units of Commercial Papers aggregating to `5,800
crores.
of the Company, pursuant to the complete exercise of Joint Venture Company JT Special Vehicles Private Limited from
23,13,33,871 Convertible Warrants held by them against receipt the JV partner on August 12, 2020 and it became a WOS.
`867,50,20,162.50 paid by Tata Sons at the time of subscription
April 30, 2020.
of the Warrants (together aggregating `3,470,00,80,650).
the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder (‘the Date : May 18, 2021 UDIN: F000327C000338104
Scheme’). The Effective Date of the Scheme is April 1, 2021.
The Company has made requisite intimation to the Registrar of This report is to be read with our letter of even date which is annexed as
Companies, Mumbai about the Scheme becoming effective. Annexure A and forms an internal part of this report.
Tata Motors Limited
Our report of even date is to be read along with this letter.
1. Maintenance of secretarial record is the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these secretarial
records based on our audit.
secretarial records. The verification was done on test basis to ensure that correct facts are reflected in secretarial records. We believe that the process and
practices, we followed provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
3. We have not verified the correctness and appropriateness of financial records and Books of Accounts of the Company.
4. Wherever required, we have obtained the Management Representation about the Compliance of laws, rules and regulations and happening of events etc.
5. The Compliance of the provisions of Corporate and other applicable laws, rules, regulations, standards is the responsibility of management. Our examination
was limited to the verification of procedure on test basis.
6. The Secretarial Audit report is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficacy or effectiveness with which the management
has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Resilience and Rebound | 89

--- Page 59 ---
Business Responsibility Report for FY 2020-21 (Pursuant to Regulation 34(2)(f) of SEBI Listing Regulations) INTRODUCTION 9. T otal number of locations where business activity is undertaken The Company is amongst the globally leading manufacturers in the by the Company automobile segment and continues to be India’s largest automobile i. N umber of International Locations (Provide details of Company with a consolidated revenue of `249,794.75 crores in major 5): Through subsidiaries and associate companies, FY 2020-21. Being the first Indian Company from the engineering sector Tata Motors group has presence in over 125+ countries, to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company believes in with a worldwide network comprising over 8,800 touch the core philosophy of ‘Good Corporate Citizenship’, staying committed points. The Company has manufacturing facilities in the UK,
to sustainability and the spirit of ‘giving back to society’. The Company is South Korea, Thailand, South Africa and Indonesia.
The Business Responsibility Report highlights the approach of the Pantnagar (Uttarakhand), Sanand (Gujarat) and Dharwad
Company towards creating long-term value for all its stakeholders. (Karnataka).
Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business (NVG-SEE) Please refer “Our Presence – Driving through change
released by Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) and is in accordance Globally” section of the Integrated Annual Report 2020-21.
1. C orporate Identity Number (CIN) of the Company: associate companies and joint ventures including Jaguar Land
L28920MH1945PLC004520 Rover in the UK and Tata Daewoo in South Korea.
2. Name of the Company: Tata Motors Limited P lease refer “Our Presence – Driving through change Globally”
section of the Integrated Annual Report 2020-21.
code-wise) 4. T otal Spending on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) as
percentage of profit after tax (%): Not applicable in view of loss.
2910 Manufacture of motor vehicles Annual Report 2020-21 for details on CSR initiatives and
spending.
T he Company has been committed to community engagement
4510 Sale of motor vehicle strategy which revolves around four focus themes:
3. Vehicles sales and service
behavior of these communities towards health awareness.
90 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 60 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) carried out various relief activities PAN India which benefitted (TCoC) to conduct their business in an ethical, transparent and 1,41,160 people though relief activities. accountable manner. It covers suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. It also addresses key BR issues like Quality and ii. Vidyadhanam (Education): This initiative aims to improve Customer Value, Corruption and Bribery, Health and Safety, the quality of education in schools by offering scholarship to
Environment, Human Rights and Employee Well-Being.
development. During FY 2020-21, 1,16,893 students benefited entity/entities? [Less than 30%, 30-60%, More than 60%]
from the Company’s education program.
iv. V asundhara (Environment): The initiatives to improve the
sustainable supply chain initiative.
plantation, construction of water conservation structure 1. Details of Director/Directors responsible for BR
and build awareness amongst the member communities.
During the year, the Company planted 1,10,101 saplings a) D etails of the Director/Directors responsible for
of indigenous varieties and fosters to maintain the survival implementation of the BR policy/policies.
(if applicable)
been committed by the government.
Section C: Other Details Sr. No.Particulars Details
1. Does the Company have any subsidiary company/ companies?
T he Company has 103 direct and indirect subsidiaries in India and (if applicable)
abroad as on year ended March 31, 2021.
Resilience and Rebound | 91

--- Page 61 ---
2. P rinciple-wise (as per NVGs) BR Policy/policies (Reply in Y/N) T he NVG on social, environmental and economic responsibilities of business released by MCA has adopted nine areas of business
responsibility. These are as follows:
P1 – Businesses should conduct and govern themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Accountability.
P2 – B usinesses should provide goods and services that are safe and contribute to sustainability throughout their life cycle.
P3 – Businesses should promote the well-being of all employees.
P4 – Businesses should respect the interests of, and be responsive towards all stakeholders, especially those who are disadvantaged,
vulnerable and marginalized.
P5 – Businesses should respect and promote human rights.
P6 – B usinesses should respect, protect, and make efforts to restore the environment.
P7 – Businesses when engaged in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in a responsible manner.
P8 – B usinesses should support inclusive growth and equitable development.
P9 – Businesses should engage with and provide value to their customers and consumers in a responsible manner.
5. Does the company have a specified committee of the Board/ Director/ Official to Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y
oversee the implementation of the policy?
suppliers, vendors, dealers and channel partners based on
their relevance.
7. Does the company have in-house structure to implement the policy/policies The Company has established in-house structures to
implement these policies.
policies to address stakeholders’ grievances related to the policy/ policies? report any concerns or grievances pertaining to any potential
or actual violation of TCoC, which covers all aspects of BRR.
vendor, dealer and channel partner forums and ongoing
communication captures their concerns and grievances.
impact assessment serve as a means for communities to
represent their concerns and grievances.
policies are subject to internal and external audits as part of
certification process.
* All the policies are signed by the Chairman and CEO & Managing Director of the Company. All the policies are carved from its guiding principles
and core values. These policies are mapped to each principle hereunder:
92 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 62 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Principle Applicable Policies Link for policies Principle 1: Businesses should Tata Code of Conduct https://www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/09042523/ conduct and govern themselves tata-code-of-conduct1.pdf with Ethics, Transparency and Whistle Blower Policy http://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/whistle-blower-policy.pdf Accountability Principle 2: Businesses should Sustainability Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/corporate-governance/policies/ provide goods and services that are Environment Policy, https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/corporate-governance/policies/ safe and contribute to sustainability Quality Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/corporate-governance/policies/ throughout their life cycle. Supplier Code of Conduct https://www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/21063650/ supplier-code-of-conduct.pdf Dealer Code of Conduct https://www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/05/21063650/ dealer-code-of-conduct.pdf Environmental Procurement https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/Enviro-Procur-Policy.pdf Policy Principle 3: Businesses should Sustainability Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/corporate-governance/policies/ promote the well-being of all Safety & Health Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/corporate-governance/policies/
employees.
regulatory policy, should do so in a
responsible manner.
their customers and consumers in a Quality Policy https://www.tatamotors.com/investors/corporate-governance/policies/
responsible manner.
1. I ndicate the frequency with which the Board of Directors,
frequently it is published?
responsibility
SH&S Council and finally by SH&S Committee.
Annual Report 2020-21 for various Board Committees and
their roles and responsibilities.
Resilience and Rebound | 93

--- Page 63 ---
Section E: Principle-wise performance compliance and unfair business practices. The Company had setup an Investor Grievance Mechanism to respond to investor grievances Principle 1: Ethics, Transparency and Accountability in a timely and appropriate manner. The investor grievances 1. D oes the policy relating to ethics, bribery and corruption cover are also reviewed at the Board level by the Investors’ Grievance only the company? Yes/ No. Does it extend to the Group/Joint Committee and immediate action is taken to resolve the same. The Ventures/ Suppliers/Contractors/ NGOs/Others? TCoC concerns are resolved through internal review mechanism by
Ethics Counselor and Senior Management.
of ethical standards by its vendors and contractors through
opportunities.
same from time to time. enabler and endeavors to create vehicles which will promote
entrepreneurship.
any direct or indirect use of authority to obstruct the whistle
supply of select components to the Company under this initiative.
also partnered with the Department of New & Renewable Energy
Ethics Helpline:
(DNRE), Government of Goa to deploy Tigor EVs throughout Goa, as
The Company has an ethics helpline where employees can place a part of its tender with Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL).
Vehicle Department (MVD), as part of its ambitious ‘Safe Kerala
ways:
A Whistleblower can report his / her ethical concerns by using the period of 8 years from the EESL through the Agency for New and
“Speak Up” service by either calling on 1800 103 2931 or log on to Renewable Energy Research and Technology (ANERT).
the website www.speak-up.info/tatamotors and send the concerns.
of the oral report by the Chief Ethics Counselor / Chairman of the of these vehicles have already been sold, while 300+ vehicles are
Audit Committee by accessing the voice mail. in pipeline.
sustainable Automobile technology. The Company has taken the
of the Audit Committee in Hindi, English or any regional language.
T he above stakeholder complaints are related to TCoC concerns, through higher fuel efficiency, excellent driving comforts and world
investor complaints and POSH complaints. TCoC concerns included class connectivity features.
94 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 64 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) 2. F or each such product, provide the following details in respect T he Company further extended this initiative to the downstream of resource use (Energy, water, raw material etc.) per unit of and initiated the Dealers Sustainability Initiative in FY 2019. The product (optional): Dealer Code of Conduct and the Dealer Sustainability Guidelines were developed to guide dealerships to improve their sustainability (a) Reduction during sourcing/production/ distribution practices. A total of 237 dealers were covered and benefited from achieved since the previous year throughout the value such workshops. As on March 31st 2021, 98 dealerships were
chain?
assessed under this initiative.
design, development of newer and improved technologies,
recycled/ returnable packaging solutions for various components.
improved aerodynamics. their place of work? If yes, what steps have been taken to improve
their capacity and capability of local and small vendors?
the basic environmental regulatory compliances. The (by value) from local sources, where local is defined as the State
Company continuously strives to improve the sustainability in which the manufacturing plant is established.
workshops on sustainability that provide training on different
renewable energy at their facilities.
The class leading fuel efficiencies of the Company’s
install renewable energy at their facilities.
of the Company, which is developed using a range of eco- waste (separately as <5%, 5-10%, >10%). Also, provide details
friendly and future oriented technologies. It is also integrated thereof, in about 50 words or so.
of which can be recycled thus minimizing the pressure on
create vehicles with lowest overall cost of ownership.
partners on sustainability. The Supplier Code of Conduct provides
manufacturing was managed as per regulatory requirements.
Suppliers’ covering key topics like governance, legal compliance, and water consumption as well as the emissions generated from
TCoC, Management system certification, transparency & procurement of raw material required for new engine.
rights. As on 31st March 2021, 388 suppliers were covered under
this initiative.
Resilience and Rebound | 95

--- Page 65 ---
Principle 3: Employee Wellbeing contractors and vendors. The Company achieved 10.41 training man-hours per employee and 11.03 training man-hours per
1. Please indicate the Total number of employees.
contractor in FY 2020-21 for 7 manufacturing plants.
36,401 as on 31st March, 2021
mechanisms.
3. Please indicate the Number of permanent women employees.
F ollowing are the details of the training provided on POSH, TCoC
1,034 as on 31st March, 2021 and Equal Opportunity policy:
5. D o you have an employee association that is recognized by e-learning module
management?
this recognized employee association? Principle 4: Stakeholder Engagement
9 9.50% of permanent workmen are part of employee associations 1. Has the company mapped its internal and external stakeholders?
recognized by Management. This does not include permanent Yes, the Company identified its internal and external stakeholders.
financial year and pending, as on the end of the financial year. attention. In FY 2020-21, a detailed stakeholder engagement was
conducted to understand key material topics.
complaints
Sr. No. Category pending as on end of vulnerable & marginalized stakeholders?
employment Affirmative Action Program (TAAP) Assessment, developed on
the lines of TBEM.
a. Permanent Employees stakeholders? If so, provide details thereof, in about 50 words or
b. Permanent Women Employees so.
Safety training formed part of the ‘Induction Programme’ and was and STs communities inter alia in Education, Employability and
provided to all employees. The safety induction programme is Entrepreneurship.
were imparted through the training programme to all employees, community across plant locations (beneficiary count included
under health initiatives).
96 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 66 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) T he Company also planted 1,10,101 saplings. The Company’s T he Company continuously contributed to develop alternate employees and their family members also volunteered 38,400 fuel technologies like electric vehicles, hybrid vehicles and fuel hours for social activities. cell technologies. The Company has been working on mitigation of transition risk with climate scenario below 2oC and plans to T he Company believes in creating an inclusive society and has establish Science Based Targets. The climate change strategies,
instituted Affirmative Action under the brand called Adhaar.
The AA Policy enables positive discrimination for SCs and STs in
from the products, operations and value chain.
T he Company respects human rights, which is an integral part of
smart and sustainable mobility solutions for the future.
TCoC. The Company has formulated a Policy on Human Rights.
Code of Conduct, and Sustainability Guidelines for Suppliers & manufacturing plants
Dealers.
or potential violation of TCoC, of which 95 of the complaints were
reducing carbon emissions.
satisfactorily resolved as at March 31, 2021.
the efforts in minimizing environmental impacts and continually
NGOs/others.
T he Company has formulated an Environmental Policy which is related risks and impacts are key priorities to the business and the
available on the website for all stakeholders. Company has comprehensive strategies in place.
S ustainability has been built into the Company’s business
Management Systems (EMS) as per ISO 14001.
processes through the well-defined Sustainability Policy.
business and innovated sustainable mobility solutions with so. Also, if yes, whether any environmental compliance report is
passion to enhance quality of life of communities. filed?
2. D oes the company have strategies/initiatives to address global N one of our plants have undertaken Clean Development
environmental issues such as climate change, global warming, Mechanism projects during FY 2020-21.
etc.? Y/N. If yes, please give hyperlink for webpage etc.
Y es, the Company has established a Climate Change policy which technology, energy efficiency, renewable energy, etc.? Y/N. If
guides the organizational efforts towards mitigating and adapting yes, please give hyperlink for web page etc.
initiative of influential businesses committed to 100% renewable
awareness among stakeholders.
electricity.
Resilience and Rebound | 97

--- Page 67 ---
T he Company sources off-site renewable energy at its plants Highways of India, along with Automotive Research
through Power Purchase Agreements (PPA) with Third Party Association of India (ARAI).
(GoI) & Petroleum Conservation Research Association
the coming years.
(PCRA).
P lease refer to Annexure 3 of the Board’s Report in Integrated
Transport & Highways.
(PEMS) for Motor Vehicles of Ministry of Shipping,
being reported?
Road Transport and Highways, Ministry of Heavy
• The manufacturing plants in India possess current and valid Industries, Ministry of Petroleum & Natural Gas (GoI).
‘Consents to Operate’ and ‘Hazardous Waste Authorizations’.
operating permits from the respective Pollution Control
GHG reduction by way of increased usage of Biodiesel.
Boards of the States where they operate.
compliance with permissible norms through in-house as the same is made available to the general public by
laboratories and also through Government Recognized oil marketing companies.
are compliant within the permissible limits prescribed by
(TDP).
• SPCBs periodically monitor the pollution control facilities at
to launch FAME scheme.
the Company’s plants.
which are pending (i.e. not resolved to satisfaction) as on end of
conventional fuels for rules and standards formulation.
Financial Year.
committees/ Regulatory forums for improving the road
pending resolution by the Company as on end of FY 2020-21.
IV. BIS TEDC /TED Committee Meetings
reduction throughout the country;
V. S IAM Council & various SIAM Group Meetings (e.g.
98 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 68 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) 2. Have you advocated/lobbied through above associations for engagement strategy, has been percolated to each manufacturing the advancement or improvement of public good? Yes/No; if yes plant through a detailed community development plan. The Plant specify the broad areas (drop box: Governance and Administration, specific plan, addressed the local needs while the Corporate Cell Economic Reforms, Inclusive Development Policies, Energy addressed a few Company-wide strategic community development security, Water, Food Security, Sustainable Business Principles, initiatives like driver training, etc. The initiatives were primarily Others) focus on Arogya (Health), Vidyadhanam (Education), Kaushalya (Employability), Vasundhara (Environment) and Rural Development T he Company through various industry associations participated Plan. Seva, the Employee Volunteering Initiative provided the in advocating matters relating to advancement of the industry and Company’s employees with a platform to form part of such public good. The Company supported various initiatives of SIAM, community initiatives. The Company along with its employees also to name a few included aspects of product safety, alternate fuel supported Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Foundation (SMDF) vehicles, environment, fuel policies, customer information and towards implementation of Amurtdhara, a National Drinking Water education. The Company’s Sustainability Policy and AA Policy is Project to provide safe drinking water to communities. Through
a progressive step towards inclusive development.
1. Does the company have specified programmes/initiatives/
and Entrepreneurship.
details thereof. P lease refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2020-21 for
detailed community engagement strategy and key initiatives.
2. Are the programmes/projects undertaken through in-house team/own foundation/external NGO/government structures/any other
organization?
T he CSR programmes and projects are deployed by the Company directly; through its own company-promoted societies/ NGOS; partnering
with the Government and collaborating with reputed, external non-profit organizations under different models.
Jagrat Manav Samaj, Jan Parivar Kalyan Sansthan, Paryavaran evam jan kalyan samite, Institute of Social Development,
Sumant Moolgaonkar Development Foundation.
Rural Development Baif Institute For Sustainable Livelihood And Development, Gram Vikas Kendra and Government of Maharashtra
Please refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2020-21’ for details on various community development programme partnerships.
3. Have you done any impact assessment of your initiative? P lease refer the Company’s ‘Annual CSR Report 2020-21’ for
Y es. The Company periodically conducts impact assessments of details on community impacts created and assessed.
partners or third party such as BSILD (erstwhile BAIF), TISS and development projects- Amount in INR and the details of the
KPMG. Frameworks like Social Impact Assessment, Social Return projects undertaken?
on Investment (SROI) are conducted and the outcome forms a
critical input to the community development plan preparation and Total expenditure reported is `23.99 crores.
to `23.68 crores and administrative overheads amounts to `31
lakhs.
Resilience and Rebound | 99

--- Page 69 ---
The details of projects: vehicle and customer support details. The Company also engages with its customers on fuel efficiency and fuel efficient driving 1. Arogya (Health) build awareness on malnourishment and other practices during the use-phase. Safety Ratings of products are health problems in the community, provides ferry mobile medical
provided on brochures and on the Company’s website.
van to look into curative and preventive health care.
Customers to have access to Online Electronic Parts Catalogues to
scholarships.
easily identify required spare parts.
3. I s there any case filed by any stakeholder against the company
youth in auto sector, non-auto trades, agriculture and allied activities.
matter. The matter shall now be listed in due course before the
in 50 words, or so.
SC for further hearing.
Company. The Company is reviewing the CCI’s order and engaging
these initiatives was done from time to time.
with counsels to take steps suitably.
the SC against the order of National Commission (NCDRC). On
programme undertaken.
vehicles to petrol vehicle purchased by him which was factually
pending as on the end of financial year.
incorrect. The matter shall now be listed in due course before the SC
T he Company has provided customers with the best in class after for further hearing.
mode such as 24X7 call center toll free no., website, social media,
satisfaction trends?
Tata Motors Service Connect App.
quality is met through integration of our Customer Relationship
network.
Management and Dealer Management System (CRM – DMS).
Cases Pending as on
achieved.
2. D oes the company display product information on the product vehicles customers who visit workshop for service. Feedback is
label, over and above what is mandated as per local laws? Yes/ captured through Call center calling, TMSC App and Khushi BOT.
No/N.A./ Remarks (additional information) Surveys are carried to capture service quality, service initiation,
T he Owner’s Manual document for all products contains important facility, manpower behavior, timely delivery and cost efficiency.
product information, instructions for safe and fuel efficient use of During the year, the score was 898/1000.
100 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 70 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
ECONOMY OVERVIEW going forward. To provide liquidity support and strengthen public in INDIA general in their fight against COVID-19 pandemic, the RBI Governor announced “on tap liquidity” to the public in general. Considering the present situation of the medical infrastructure in the country, banks are encouraged to provide fresh lending support to a wide range of India GDP entities including vaccine manufactures, importers and suppliers of vaccines and priority medical devices, hospitals/dispensaries, pathology labs, manufactures and suppliers of oxygen and ventilators, 12.5% importers of vaccines and COVID-19 related drugs, logistics firms and 6.9% patients for treatment. The RBI also announced certain relaxations in overdraft (“OD”) facilities of state governments to better manage their
-8.0% fiscal situation in terms of their cash-flows and market borrowings.
increased from 36 to 50 days and the number of consecutive days of
FY 2021 Est. FY 2022 Proj. FY 2023 Est. OD from 14 to 21 days will be available until September 30, 2021.
The recovery in economy is resilient with sustained improvement in lower freight utilizations, difficulties in obtaining financing and some
majority of high frequency indicators. The Purchase Manager’s Index hesitation due to rising costs for BS VI vehicles.
(“IMF”) projections in March 2021, Indian economic growth is estimated the demand for Commercial Vehicles was severely impacted in the first
at 12.5% in FY 2021-22 and 6.9% in FY 2022-23. half of FY 2020-21.
restrictions as they are witnessing surges in the COVID-19 cases. Vehicles, is likely to also benefit from various government initiatives to
We are expecting a weaker first quarter in FY 2021-22 on account of help revive the economy.
The Government of India has encouraged foreign investment in the
sequential recovery as supply chain and COVID-19 situations improve.
unchanged at 4% and the RBI is continuing with its accommodative Government of India has also provided an income tax deduction of `1.50
stance and will continue if necessary, to sustain growth on a durable lakhs on interest paid on loan taken for purchase of electric vehicles.
basis and continue to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic Government of India has shown strong intent of driving EV adoption in
on the economy, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target last few years and have introduced several policy interventions.
Resilience and Rebound | 101

--- Page 71 ---
WORLD China: Growth in China decelerated to 2.3% in year 2020 which was still above the previous projections helped by the country’s effective
control of the COVID-19 pandemic and public investment-led stimulus.
3.5 3.8 deficit and total debt. Fiscal policy support, which initially focused on
2.3 providing relief and boosting public investment, is starting to moderate.
-6.6 imbalances. Following a sharp contraction, the Chinese economy
returned to growth during the middle of 2021, albeit at an uneven pace.
surpluses. Industrial profits have improved, and government revenue
GDP 2020 GDP Projections 2021 GDP Projections 2022 has been strengthening.
Economic Growth: Global activity is estimated to have contracted 3.3% motivated by the need to protect domestic workers. Furthermore, risks
in 2020 because of COVID-19 pandemic. Given the unprecedented of protectionist tendencies surrounding technology are emerging.
uncertain, and several growth outcomes are possible. Global growth COVID-19 pandemic related pharmaceutical APIs, which would impede
is estimated at 6.0% in 2021 and is projected to stabilize further at the global supply of vaccines and medicines.
2020 was nearly three times as large as the peak decline during the
others in the group will return to their pre-COVID levels only in 2022.
renewed restrictions and a broad-based resurgence of the COVID-19,
well as Russia and other non-OPEC oil exporters.
improve and crisis-related expenditures unwind with the projected
chips and charging or other components of electric vehicles.
capacity for the past year due to proactive local government actions and growing inequality, or to correct the setback in human capital
in response to the spread of COVID-19, causing a global shortage of accumulation during the crisis.
semiconductors supply.
102 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 72 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) in the third quarter of last year was cut short by a sharp resurgence over a 10 day period, at JLR’s Solihull manufacturing site in the West of the COVID-19 pandemic, which prompted many member countries Midlands. Jaguar Land Rover’s global retailer network were inevitably to re-impose stringent lockdown measures. Against the backdrop of impacted during the pandemic but maintained sales channels through
a historic recession, the policy response has been far-reaching and innovative remote solutions such as a ‘click and delivery’ arrangements.
COVID-19 Pandemic and managing workforce
tax asset.
to reach out to those who needed help and provide them support. In
impact on its financial statements.
families to foster their emotional well-being. Automotive operations is the Company’s most significant segment,
During Restart phase, dedicated ‘Restart’ teams at each location curated which include:
social distancing at all workplaces, shop floors and canteen facilities. assembly and sale of vehicles as well as related spare parts and
We restarted our operations at select plants and dealership with accessories;
norms while efficiently meeting operational requirements. Gradually • distribution and service of vehicles; and
we scaled up our operations with entire ecosystem of suppliers, • financing of the Company’s vehicles in certain markets.
vendors, dealers and customers coming up to speed.
The automotive operation is further divided into four reporting
At Jaguar Land Rover, the health, wellbeing and safety of its people segments:
and partners remains their utmost priority. Working with Public Health
England, JLR were one of the first businesses and the largest in the UK, (i) Tata and other brand vehicles - Commercial vehicles;
to introduce on-site Covid-19 testing. All of JLR’s facilities benefit from (ii) Tata and other brand vehicles – Passenger vehicles;
Resilience and Rebound | 103

--- Page 73 ---
The total sales (excluding China joint venture) for FY 2020-21 and FY We sold 4,90,151 units of Tata Commercial Vehicles and Tata 2019-20 are set forth in the table below: Passenger Vehicles and 3,47,632 units (excluding wholesales from the China Joint Venture) of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles in FY 2020- FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 21. In terms of units sold, our largest market was India where we sold Units Units 4,63,736 and 4,48,614 units during FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20, Passenger cars 2,03,361 2,02,010 respectively (constituting 55.4% and 46.7% of total sales in FY 2020-21 Utility vehicles 3,66,909 4,11,866 and FY 2019-20, respectively), followed by North America, where we Intermediate and Light 42,386 47,406 sold 93,759 units and 1,35,766 units in FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20, Commercial Vehicles respectively (constituting 11.2% and 14.1% of total sales in FY 2020-21 SCV & Pick Up 1,46,174 1,67,639
and FY 2019-20, respectively).
9.2
PV PV
24.3 21.0
UV UV
17.4
ILCV ILCV
17.4 SCV & Pick Up SCV & Pick Up 5.1 CV Passenger Vehicle 4.9 CV Passenger Vehicle 42.9
MHCV MHCV
43.8 Tata and other brand vehicles We maintained our leadership position in the Commercial Vehicle category in India, which was characterized by increased competition India is the primary market for Tata and other brand vehicles (including during the year. The Passenger Vehicle market also continued to be vehicle financing). During FY 2020-21, the Indian automotive sector
subject to intense competition.
subdued demand, weak consumer sentiment and supply disruptions. The following table sets forth our market share in various categories in
The COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted our sales in India in the the Indian market based on TML wholesale volumes:
Category FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20
beginning with the second quarter of FY 2020-21.
Utility Vehicles 7.4% 5.6%
Tata Commercial Vehicles and Tata Passenger Vehicles:
Total PV 8.2% 4.8%
FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20
Medium and Heavy Commercial 58.1% 57.4% Units % Units % Vehicles Tata Passenger 2,22,638 45.4% 1,37,924 28.4% Vehicles Intermediate and Light 45.9% 47.2% Commercial Vehicles Tata Commercial 2,67,513 54.6% 3,47,587 71.6% Vehicles SCVs and Pick Ups 37.5% 37.9% CV Passenger Vehicles 40.6% 40.9% Total 4,90,151 100.0% 4,85,511 100.0% Total CV 42.4% 43.0% Of the 4,90,151 units sold overall in FY 2020-21, the Company sold Total Four-Wheel Vehicles 14.1% 12.7% 4,63,736 units of Tata and other brand vehicles in India and 26,415 units outside India, compared to 4,48,614 units and 36,897 units, Source: Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers Report and our
respectively in FY 2019-20. internal analysis.
104 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 74 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) The following table sets forth TML total domestic wholesales and retails of Tata Commercial Vehicles and Tata Passenger Vehicles Wholesale Volume (in units) Retail Volume (in units) FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 % change FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 % change Tata Commercial vehicles 2,41,668 3,12,267 (22.6) 2,08,437 3,60,787 (42.2) Tata Passenger vehicles 2,22,074 1,31,796 68.5 2,28,863 1,48,789 53.8 Total 4,63,742 4,44,063 4.4 4,37,300 5,09,576 (14.2) Passenger Vehicles in India
Industry sales of Passenger vehicles (including vans) decreased by 2.0% to 27,09,936 units in FY 2020-21 from 27,66,512 units in FY 2019-20.
The following table sets forth the breakup of the wholesale sales in various categories of TML.
Industry Sales Tata Passenger Vehicles Sales
FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20
% change % change (in units) (in units) (in units) (in units) Passenger Cars 15,41,968 16,95,344 (9.0) 1,35,680 71,719 89.2 Utility Vehicles 10,62,887 9,52,764 11.6 86,394 60,077 43.8 Total 26,04,855 26,48,108 (1.6) 2,22,074 1,31,796 68.5 Industry-wide sales of Passenger cars in India decreased by 9.0% in compared to 75,781 units in FY 2019-20. During FY 2020-21, we FY 2020-21, compared to a 23.6% decline in FY 2019-20, while Utility launched refreshed variants of products, including Altroz I Turbo, Vehicles sales increased by 11.6% in FY 2020-21 compared to marginal Altroz XM and Tiago XTA. Our market share for Passenger Cars in India
increase in FY 2019-20. While overall industry sales were lower than was higher at 8.8% in FY 2020-21, compared to 4.2% in FY 2019-20.
strong demand and thin pipeline inventory at our dealers. refreshed variants for Tata Nexon and Harrier. We launched Tata Safari
in January 2021 and sold 3,855 units in FY 2020-21.
units in FY 2020-21 compared to 71,719 units in FY 2019-20. Tata- Tata Motors continued to remain market leader in electric vehicles in
brand vehicles sales increased to 1,35,681 units in FY 2020-21, FY 2020-21 with a 71% share due to a strong response for Nexon EV.
Industry sales of commercial vehicles decreased by 21.7% to 5,69,307 units in FY 2020-21 from 7,26,762 units in FY 2019-20. The following table
sets forth the breakup of the wholesale sales in various categories on standalone basis.
Sales of TML in the ILCVs category in India decreased by 10.1% to 37,826
obtaining financing and some hesitation due to rising costs for BS VI vehicles.
MHCVs in India brand vehicle sales decreased to 37,826 units in FY 2020-21, from 42,052
units in FY 2019-20.
demand in this segment and increased our market share by 70 bps to 58.1% significant order of 6,413 Tata Ace Gold vehicles from Andhra Pradesh State
in FY 2020-21. Civil Supplies Corporation.
Resilience and Rebound | 105

--- Page 75 ---
CV Passenger Vehicles in India Tata Commercial Vehicles and Tata Passenger Vehicles - Competition Sales in CV Passenger Vehicles category in India of TML decreased by 78.0% to 8,479 units in FY 2020-21 compared to 38,482 units in FY 2019- We face competition from various domestic and foreign automotive 20 and Tata-brand vehicle sales decreased to 8,479 units in FY 2020-21 manufacturers in the Indian automotive market. Improving infrastructure and from 38,478 units in FY 2019-20. CV Passenger segment was impacted robust growth prospects compared to other mature markets have attracted the highest because of the COVID-19 pandemic, with work from home strong international companies to India that have either formed joint ventures protocols, schools not reopening and lower demand from State Transport with local partners or have established independently owned operations in Undertakings. India. Global competitors bring with them their international experience, global scale, advanced technology, and significant financial resources, and Tata Commercial Vehicles and Tata Passenger Vehicles — Exports as a result, competition is likely to further intensify in the future. We have International business is a key part of our portfolio since its inception in 1961. designed our products to suit the requirements of the Indian market based We have a global presence in more than 46 countries, including all South on specific customer needs, such as safety, driving comfort, fuel-efficiency Asian Association for Regional Cooperation countries, South Africa, Africa, and durability. By moving to BS VI successfully we have demonstrated our Middle East and Southeast Asia. We market a range of products including ability to compete with the global players successfully. We believe that our M&HCV trucks, LCV trucks, buses, pickups and small commercial vehicles. vehicles are suited to the general conditions of Indian roads and the local Our overall sales in international markets decreased by 32.0% to 20,849 climate. We also offer a wide range of optional configurations to meet the units in FY 2020-21, compared to 31,144 units in FY 2019-20. Commercial specific needs of our customers. We intend to develop and are developing vehicles exports were 20,283 units in FY 2020-21, as compared to 29,664 products to strengthen our product portfolio in order to meet the increasing
units in FY 2019-20. In Africa, Tanzania clocked the highest retails since customer expectation of owning world-class products.
years and the entire Middle East buses closed the year with a 12% higher
Demand for our vehicles in the Indian market is subject to seasonal variations.
there tends to be a decrease in demand in February just before release of
substantially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd or TDCV’s, our subsidiary company to July and gains momentum again in the festival season from September
that engages in the design, development and manufacturing of MHCVs and onwards, with a decline in December due to year-end.
Passenger Vehicles and Commercial Vehicles businesses. We use a network with whom we have agreements. All our marketing, sales and collection
of service centers on highways and a toll-free customer assistance center activities are undertaken through dealers or by TMF group.
TMFL securitizes or sells its finance receivables based on the evaluation of
vehicle owners.
resident sales and service representatives in various countries to oversee
receivables due from purchasers by means of private placement.
our operations in the respective territories.
106 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 76 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) TMFL acts as the collection agent on behalf of the investors, representatives, • f urnishing, in favor of the investors, certain percentages of the future special purpose vehicles or banks, in whose favor the receivables have been principal in the receivables as collateral, for securitizations done assigned, for the purpose of collecting receivables from the purchasers on through FY 2020-21, either by way of a fixed deposit or bank guarantee the terms and conditions contained in the applicable deeds of securitization, in respect of which pass-through certificates are issued to investors in case or subordinate tranche to secure the obligations of the purchasers of special purpose vehicles, or SPVs. TMFL also secures the payments to be and our obligations as the collection agent, based on the quality of made by the purchasers of amounts constituting the receivables under the receivables and rating assigned to the individual pool of receivables loan agreements to the extent specified by rating agencies by any one or all by the rating agencies; and
of the following methods:
• f urnishing collateral to the investors, in respect of the obligations of • b y way of over-collateralization or by investing in subordinate pass-
the purchasers and the undertakings to be provided by TMFL; through certificates to secure the obligations of the purchasers.
Total wholesale and retail volume of Jaguar Land Rover vehicles with a breakdown between Jaguar and Land Rover brand vehicles, in FY 2020-21
and FY 2019-20 are set forth in the table below:
Jaguar 67,333 1,25,820 (46.5) 97,669 1,40,593 (30.5)
UK 22,305 35,033 (36.3) 22,529 32,533 (30.8)
North America 13,450 30,514 (55.9) 18,186 30,095 (39.6) Europe 20,693 36,158 (42.8) 20,578 35,335 (41.8) China 4,603 7,162 (35.7) 28,181 26,061 8.1 Overseas 6,282 16,953 (62.9) 8,195 16,569 (50.5) Land Rover 2,80,299 3,50,132 (19.9) 3,41,919 3,68,066 (7.1)
UK 59,195 75,034 (21.1) 60,466 74,079 (18.4)
North America 80,309 1,05,252 (23.7) 92,619 99,251 (6.7) Europe 55,913 77,112 (27.5) 58,682 71,702 (18.2) China 42,542 31,150 36.6 83,025 64,063 29.6 Overseas 42,340 61,584 (31.2) 47,127 58,971 (20.1) Jaguar Land Rover 3,47,632 4,75,952 (27.0) 4,39,588 5,08,659 (13.6)
UK 81,500 1,10,067 (26.0) 82,995 1,06,612 (22.2)
North America 93,759 1,35,766 (30.9) 1,10,805 1,29,346 (14.3) Europe 76,606 1,13,270 (32.4) 79,260 1,07,037 (26.0) China 47,145 38,312 23.1 1,11,206 90,124 23.4 Overseas 48,622 78,537 (38.1) 55,322 75,540 (26.8)
CJLR 65,279 49,450 32.0
Jaguar Land Rover’s performance on a wholesale basis: 45,244 vehicles in the period. In addition to the COVID-19 pandemic, other In FY 2020-21, Jaguar Land Rover wholesale volumes (excluding our factors that impacted the sales in the industry during FY 2020-21 included China Joint Venture) were 3,47,632 units down 27.0% compared to ongoing in the UK and Europe related to Brexit related developments (in FY 2019-20, primarily reflecting the disruption in sales and production spite of a trade agreement between the UK and the EU being reached in because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Wholesale volumes from the China December 2020) and more generally regulatory and emissions challenges
Joint Venture were 65,279 units, reflecting a 32.0% increase compared as well as continuing trade tensions and other geopolitical pressures.
all models declined due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in MHEV, with the remaining 48.9% of retail sales from traditional diesel
FY 2020-21, apart from the new Land Rover Defender which wholesaled and petrol internal combustion engines.
53,501 vehicles reflecting the strong reception in the market for an Jaguar Land Rover’s Sales & Distribution
anticipated model.
with the exception of retail sales in China, which were up 23.1% year-on- and sales support to its their regional importer markets. The remaining
year and sales of the newly introduced Land Rover Defender, which reached importer markets are managed from the United Kingdom.
Resilience and Rebound | 107

--- Page 77 ---
Jaguar Land Rover products are sold through a variety of sales channels: Overview through its dealerships for retail sales, for sale to fleet customers, including In FY 2020-21 income from operations including finance revenues decreased daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies by 4.3% to `2,49,795 crores in FY 2020-21 from `2,61,068 crores in FY and governments. Jaguar Land Rover does not depend on a single customer 2019-20. This decrease was mainly attributable to lower sales volumes from or small group of customers to the extent that the loss of such a customer or both Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover and partially offset by a favorable
group of customers would have a material adverse effect on its business.
currency translation from GBP to INR and increase in average selling price per
As at March 31, 2021, the Jaguar Land Rover global sales and distribution unit under BS VI norms.
franchise sales dealers in 1,513 sites, of which 1,326 are joint Jaguar and Land
Rover dealers.
manufacturers who aspire to move into the premium performance car
and premium SUV markets, some of which are much larger than they are.
and Volkswagen. The net loss (attributable to shareholders of our Company) was `13,451
crores in FY 2020-21, compared to a loss of `12,071 crores in FY 2019-20.
the time of the year when the vehicle registration number change occurs. compared to a loss of `8,709 crores in FY 2019-20, attributable to better
Seasonality in most other markets is driven by the introduction of new model product mix and cost reduction measures.
to be affected by the Lunar New Year holiday in either January or February, Automotive operations are our most significant segment, accounting for 99.4%
the PRC National Day holiday, and the Golden Week holiday in October. The and 99.3% of our total revenues in FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20, respectively.
basis. eliminations was `2,48,181 crores compared to `2,59,292 crores in FY 2019-
20.
All financial information discussed in this section is derived from our Audited
Rover and Vehicle financing.
Consolidated Financial Statements.
33,104
CV
36,329
CV
16,606 10,482
PV
PV
JLR
JLR
Financing 1,93,823 Financing 2,08,040 108 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 78 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Earnings/(loss) Before Other Income, Earnings Before Other Income, Interest Total Revenues ( ` crores) Interest and Tax ( ` crores) and Tax (% of revenue) FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 Tata Commercial Vehicle 33,104 36,329 (305) (368) (0.9) (1.0) Tata Passenger Vehicle 16,606 10,482 (1,564) (2,868) (9.4) (27.4) Jaguar Land Rover 1,93,823 2,08,040 7,691 594 4.0 0.3 Vehicle Financing 4,490 4,295 2,794 2,855 62.2 66.5 Unallocable 284 216 (75) (256) (26.5) (118.7) Intra- segment elimination (126) (71) - - - - Total 2,48,181 2,59,292 8,541 (43) In FY 2020-21, Jaguar Land Rover contributed 78% of our total year, as a result, Jaguar Land Rover wholesale volumes declined in automotive revenue compared to 80% in FY 2019-20 (before intra- other regions including in Overseas markets (down 38.1% year-on- segment elimination) and the remaining 22% was contributed by year), Europe (down 32.4%), North America (down 30.9%) and in the Tata and other brand vehicles and Vehicle Financing in FY 2020- UK (down 26.0%). In addition to COVID-19 pandemic, other factors 21, compared to 20% in FY 2019-20. The following table sets forth impacting automotive industry sales during FY 2020-21 included selected data from Tata and other brand vehicles (including vehicle Brexit uncertainty for the UK and Europe, although a trade agreement financing) and Jaguar Land Rover in FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20 and was reached between the UK and the EU in December 2020, and more the percentage change from period to period (before intra-segment generally regulatory and emissions challenges as well as continuing eliminations) are set forth in the table below. trade tensions and other geopolitical pressures. The following chart
sets forth our revenue from key geographical markets:
The Tata and other brand vehicles including vehicle financing consists 20% USA
of following categories:
Vehicle Financing 4,490 4,295 4.5
UK, 34,045
Unallocable 284 216 31.4
14% UK, 37,244
Total 54,484 51,322 6.2 15% Others Other operations Our other operations business segment mainly includes information
technology services, machine tools and factory automation solutions.
(` in crores) 18% India, 47,094,
18% USA
Earning before other 12.2% 12.5% income, interest and tax (% of revenue) China, 29,820, UK 11% Geographical Breakdown USA, 52,029 EU excl UK As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic in FY 2020-21, there is a reduction 20% in revenue across most geographical markets except China and India, EU excl UK, China In FY 2020-21 volume and percentage of revenues in China and India 43,228, have improved from FY 2019-20 levels. China witnessed a double-digit 17% UK, 42,443, Others growth in volumes in FY 2020-21 as the region continued to recover 16% strongly from the pandemic. However, as COVID-19 pandemic spread globally, many government authorities were forced to introduce and re-introduce strict social distancing measures over the course of the Resilience and Rebound | 109

--- Page 79 ---
The “Rest of Europe” market is geographic Europe, excluding the United The revenue of our Tata brand vehicles including vehicle finance increased Kingdom and Russia. The “Rest of World” market is any regions not by 6.2% to `54,484 crores in FY 2020-21 from `51,322 crores in FY included above. 2019-20, mainly due to increased volumes in passenger car segment. The revenue from Tata commercial vehicle was `33,104 crores in FY 2020- The following table sets forth selected items from our consolidated 21, compared to `36,329 crores in FY 2019-20, a decrease of 8.9%. The statements of income for the periods indicated and shows these items revenue from Tata Passenger Vehicles was `16,606 crores in FY 2020- as a percentage of total revenue: 21, compared to `10,482 crores in FY 2019-20, an increase of 58.4%. Our revenues from sales of vehicles and spare parts manufactured in India FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 increased by 7.2% to `47,033 crores in FY 2020-21 from `43,865 crores
(%) (%) in FY 2019-20.
The revenue from Passenger Cars in India has increased by 105.9% to
Expenditure:
Profit before Depreciation and 13.3 8.7 vehicles. There is a reduction in sales volume which was partially offset by
Amortization, Finance costs, Foreign increase in average selling price per unit under BS VI norms.
Foreign exchange loss (net) (0.7) 0.7 market was severely impacted by COVID-19 and experienced a reduction
Exceptional Item (gain)/loss (net) 5.5 1.1 of 26.4% from 1,609 units in FY 2019-20 to 1,185 units in FY 2020- 21.
Revenue from our Vehicle Financing operations increased by 4.5% to
Tax expense / (credit) 1.0 0.1 `4,490 crores in FY 2020-21, compared to `4,295 crores in FY 2019-20.
Share of profits/(loss) of equity accounted (0.2) (0.4) of excess interest spread on the direct assignment transaction undertaken
investees (net) during FY 2020-21.
average revenue per vehicle and much lower incentive spending during
investee less depreciation and amortization.
Our total consolidated revenue from operations including finance revenue,
2020-21, a decrease of 19.9% (volumes excluding the China Joint Venture).
decrease of 5.7%. We sold 8,37,783 vehicles in FY 2020-21, compared to crores in FY 2019-20. This is mainly on account of decrease in revenue of
9,61,463 vehicles in FY 2019-20. Tata Technologies due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
110 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 80 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Cost and Expenses Employee Costs Raw Materials, Components and Purchase of Products for Sale Our employee costs decreased by 9.2% in FY 2020-21 to `27,648 crores (including change in inventories of finished goods and work-in- from `30,439 crores in FY 2019-20, including the foreign currency
progress) translation impact from GBP to Indian rupees as discussed below.
FY 2019-20, due to increased volumes. The material costs as a percentage from 19,169 employees in FY 2019-20, due to increase in productions,
of total revenue increased to 75.6% in FY 2020-21, compared to 73.4% mainly passenger vehicles.
commodity prices. Material costs for MHCVs category decreased by decreased to 9.0% in FY 2020-21 from 10.0% in FY 2019-20, mainly due
4.7% to `10,191 crores in FY 2020-21, compared to `10,688 crores to increase in revenue.
FY 2019-20 mainly due to decrease in volumes which was partially offset certain overtime and voluntary early separation that was given during FY
by increase in commodity prices. The material costs as a percentage 2020-21.
At our Jaguar Land Rover operations, material costs in FY 2020-21 decreased to 10.9% in FY 2020-21 from 11.2% in FY 2019-20 (in GBP
decreased by 9.1% to `1,20,335 crores, from `1,32,408 crores in FY terms).
change in product mix. Material costs at our Jaguar Land Rover operations
2019-20, respectively.
as a percentage of revenue decreased to 62.5% in FY 2020-21, from 63.6%
in FY 2019-20 (in GBP terms).
Resilience and Rebound | 111

--- Page 81 ---
Other Expenses Other expenses decreased by 28.3% to `40,922 crores in FY 2020-21 from `57,087 crores in FY 2019-20. There was an unfavourable foreign currency translation of GBP to Indian rupees of `2,493 crores. As a percentage of total revenues, these expenses decreased to 16.4% in FY 2020-
21 from 21.9% in FY 2019-20. The major components of expenses are as follows:
Percentage of Total Revenue
FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20
% Change FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20 ( ` In crores) Freight and transportation expenses 5,716 6,484 (11.8) 2.3 2.5 Works operation and other expenses 14,230 17,847 (20.3) 5.7 6.8 Publicity 4,385 7,614 (42.4) 1.8 2.9 Allowance for trade and other receivables and 979 763 28.3 0.4 0.3 finance receivables Warranty and product liability expenses 7,609 10,885 (30.1) 3.0 4.2 Processing charges 965 1,070 (9.8) 0.4 0.4 Stores, spare parts, and tools consumed 1,279 1,501 (14.8) 0.5 0.6 Power and fuel 1,113 1,265 (12.0) 0.4 0.5 Information technology/computer expenses 2,720 2,372 14.7 1.1 0.9 Engineering expenses 3,308 6,598 (49.9) 1.3 2.5 MTM (gain)/loss on commodity derivatives (1,382) 688 300.9 (0.5) 0.3 Total 40,922 57,087 (28.3) 16.4 21.9 1. F reight and transportation expenses decreased by 11.8% to 5. W arranty and product liability expenses represented 3.0% `5,716 crores in FY 2020-21. This is partially offset by an and 4.2% of our total revenues in FY 2020-21 and FY 2019- unfavourable currency translation of `370 crores from GBP to 20, respectively. The warranty expenses at Jaguar Land Rover INR. At Jaguar Land Rover freight and transportation expenses decreased to GB£706 million (3.6% of the revenue) in FY 2020- decreased by 18.3% from GB£611 million in FY 2019-20 to 21, compared to GB£1,131 million (4.9% of revenue) in FY 2019- GB£499 million in FY 2020-21, mainly due to lower sales volumes. 20, mainly due to increased retailer guidance, guided diagnostics At Tata Motors standalone level, expenses decreased by 26.2% enhancement, proactive issue detection, prioritisation and from `1,066 crores in FY 2019-20 to `787 crores in FY 2020-21 resolution coming from charge+ initiatives, significant quality on account of lower production, mainly for commercial vehicles in improvements in vehicles and the implementation of other first quarter of FY 2020-21 due to nationwide lockdown. business enhancement activities. For Tata Motors’ Indian operations, these represent 0.9% and 1.2% of the revenue 2. O ur works operation and other expenses represented 5.7% for FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20, respectively, due to quality and 6.8% of total revenue in FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20,
improvements and product mix.
3. P ublicity expenses were 1.8% and 2.9% of our total revenues
the line item “expenditure capitalized” discussed below.
(2.0% of the revenue) in FY 2020-21, compared to GB£733 million crores in FY 2020-21, compared to loss of `688 crores in FY
(3.2% of revenue) in FY 2019-20. Marketing activity was limited 2019-20.
capitalized decreased by 26.6% to `12,849 crores in FY 2020-21
Tata Motors India operations.
4. T he allowances for finance receivables related to Vehicle foreign currency translation impact from GBP to Indian rupees of `852
Financing segment. These mainly reflect provisions for the crores pertaining to Jaguar Land Rover.
mainly on account of additional provisions carried on account
`2,973 crores in FY 2019-20, representing decrease of 11.1%.
in FY 2020-21, compared to `104 crores in FY 2019-20, due to to `1,170 crores in FY 2019-20, mainly decreased short term
better collections. fixed deposit at both Tata Motors Limited and Jaguar Land Rover.
112 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 82 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Further, at Tata Motors Limited, most of the dealers were Cash and USD and EUR in FY 2020-21. There is a gain of GB£182 million in FY carry, reducing the credit period. 2020-21, compared to a loss of GB£137 million in FY 2019-20, due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on derivatives • Incentive from government has marginally decreased to `1,918 contracts that are not hedge accounted and natural hedges of debt,
crore in FY 2020-21, compared to `1,984 crores in FY 2019-20.
Tax credit on qualifying expenditure for research and development
in FY 2019-20.
in FY 2020-21.
`20 crores in FY 2020-21, compared to loss of `389 crores in FY
attributable to foreign currency denominated borrowings.
• Profit on sale of investments measured at fair value through profit
FY 2020-21, compared to `253 crores in FY 2019-20.
amendment past service cost
FY 2020-21 FY 2019-20
Write off/provision (reversal) 114 (73) Depreciation 10,873 10,610 for tangible/intangible assets Amortization 11,502 9,699 (including under development) Amortization of Leased Assets 1,172 1,116 Charge associated with change 14,994 - (RTU) in JLR Strategy Total 23,547 21,425 Impairment losses/(Reversal) in (1,182) 1,419 Passenger Vehicle Business The increase in depreciation and amortization expenses is mainly due to an unfavourable foreign currency translation from GBP to Indian Provision/(Reversal) for Onerous (663) 777 rupees of `1,420 crores. This is further increased due to Job 1 programs Contracts and related supplier in the year, Velar and 20MY Range Rover & Range Rover sport at Jaguar claims Land Rover and at TML by `203 crores due to Capitalization of Altroz Provision for costs of closure of (47) (66) and BSVI projects. operation of a subsidiary Impairment in subsidiaries - 353 Finance Cost (interest expenses) Provision for loan given to a Joint - 25 Our interest expense (net of interest capitalized) increased by 11.8% venture
to `8,097 crores in FY 2020-21 from `7,243 crores in FY 2019-20.
the US$650 million 5.875% 7-year senior notes issued in December
year.
due to lower cost of borrowings. during the year ended March 31, 2021 based on new information and
Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) accordingly, a charge of `85 crores (GBP 9 million) has been recognised.
borrowings of GB£314 million in FY 2020-21, compared to a loss of plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress and intangibles under
GB£135 million in FY 2019-20, due to GBP strengthening against development.
Resilience and Rebound | 113

--- Page 83 ---
Charge associated with change in JLR Strategy Tax expenses / (credit) Project Reimagine was approved by the JLR board on February 11, 2021, Our income tax expenses is `2,542 crores in FY 2020-21, compared to which targets the production of more sustainable and fully electric luxury `395 crores in FY 2019-20, resulting in consolidated effective tax rates
vehicles including the goal of having a fully electric fleet of luxury vehicles of 24.3% and 3.7%, for FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20, respectively.
emissions across its supply chain, among other environmentally driven
subsidiaries and Joint Operations opting for lower tax regime.
the MLA-Mid architecture, resulted in a charge being recognised comprising There is significant increase in tax expense as referred to above due to
the following: a) Asset write-downs of GB£952 million (`9,606 crores) in the following reasons:
`788 crores (FY 2019-20 : `2,922 crores) due to uncertainty of future
service cost of GB£8 million (`76 crores).
Impairment losses/(Reversal) in Passenger Vehicle Business (FY 2019-20: `22 crores) has not been recognised in the case of few
As at March 31, 2020, the Company assessed the recoverable value Subsidiaries and Joint Operations due to uncertainty of realization.
a single cash-generating unit (CGU), due to refresh of its strategy in Subsidiaries amounting to `311 crores as compared to tax credits of
response to change in market conditions on account of various factors `86 crores arising out of losses in FY 2019-20.
indicators. Accordingly, the Company reassessed its estimates and 21, which was being claimed in Tata Motors Limited on a standalone
determined the recoverable value for this CGU considering the significant basis.
business when compared with the assumed performance at the time assets under construction of `430 crores, which does not qualify for
when the impairment loss was recorded. Based on this reassessment, tax relief.
Profit/(loss) after tax
CGU.
become onerous, as the Company estimated that it will procure lower `555 crores in FY 2019-20. This was mainly the result of the following
quantities than committed and the costs will exceed the future economic factors:
Land Rover charged `15,350 crores as exceptional item of which
Provision for cost of closure of operation of a subsidiary `14,994 crores under Reimagine strategy in fourth quarter.
of restructuring cost of `52 crores during FY 2020-21, compared to
compared to `2,855 crores in FY 2019-20.
As a result of change in market conditions, the Company performed compared to earnings of `368 crores in FY 2019-20, primarily due
an impairment assessment for assets forming part of wholly owned to lower volumes and product mix.
during the year ended March 31, 2020. 21, compared to `2,868 crores in FY 2019-20, due to increased
sales volume in cars and Utility Vehicle segment.
During the year ended March 31, 2020, we created provision for loans
given to certain Joint venture.
114 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 84 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Share of profit/(loss) of equity-accounted investees and non- 2020-21 was loss of `363 crores, compared to loss of `1,016 crores in controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries, net of tax FY 2019-20. The decrease in losses was mainly due to increase in sales
volumes and better business performance.
of `379 crores, compared to `1,000 crores in FY 2019-20. Our share The share of non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries was
of profit (including other adjustments) in the China Joint Venture in FY decreased to `56 crores in FY 2020-21 from `96 crores in FY 2019-20.
B.BALANCE SHEET
Below is a discussion of major items and variations in our consolidated balance sheet as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, included elsewhere in this
annual report.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
ASSETS
(a) Property, plant and equipment, right of use and 1,58,868 1,61,952 (3,085) 9,233 (12,318) intangible assets (b) Goodwill 804 777 27 - 27 ( c) Investment in equity accounted investees 4,201 4,419 (218) 229 (447) (d) Financial assets 1,28,648 98,922 29,726 4,688 25,038 (e) Deferred tax assets (net) 4,520 5,458 (938) 287 (1,225) (f) Current tax assets (net) 1,869 1,295 574 58 516 (g) Other assets 7,907 11,647 (3,740) 349 (4,089) (h) Inventories 36,089 37,457 (1,368) 2,185 (3,553) (i) Assets classified as held-for-sale 221 194 27 - 27 TOTAL ASSETS 3,43,126 3,22,121 21,005 17,029 3,976
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY 56,820 63,892 (7,072) 3,805 (10,877)
LIABILITIES
(a) Financial liabilities: 2,34,453 2,12,456 21,997 10,019 11,978 (b) Provisions 26,455 25,066 1,389 1,699 (310) ( c) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 1,556 1,942 (386) 84 (470) (d) Other liabilities 22,756 17,725 5,031 1,349 3,682 (d) Current tax liabilities (net) 1,086 1,040 46 73 (27) TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,86,306 2,58,229 28,077 13,224 14,853 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,43,126 3,22,121 21,005 17,029 3,976 Our total assets were `3,43,126 crores and `3,22,121 crores as at Trade receivables (net of allowance for doubtful receivables) were March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase by 6.5% in `12,679 crores as at March 31, 2021, representing an increase of assets as at March 31, 2021 considers a favourable foreign currency `1,506 crores or 13.5% over March 31, 2020. The increase was translation from GBP into Indian rupees as described below. partially due to favourable foreign currency translation of `624 crores from GBP to Indian rupees. Trade receivables at Tata and other brand Our total current assets increased by `27,300 crores to `1,46,888 vehicles (including vehicle finance) increased by 23.6% to `3,833 crores or 22.8% as at March 31, 2021, compared to `1,19,587 crores crores as at March 31, 2021 from `3,102 crores as at March 31, 2020, as at March 31, 2020. primarily on account of higher sales volume during the recovery phase Cash and cash equivalents increased by 71.7% to `31,700 crores as after lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The trade receivables of at March 31, 2021, compared to `18,468 crores as at March 31, 2020, Jaguar Land Rover were `8,501 crores as at March 31, 2021, compared which also includes a favourable foreign currency translation of `1,592 to `7,586 crores as at March 31, 2020 and increase of 12.1%. The past dues for more than six months (gross) decreased from `1,744 crores as crores from GBP to Indian rupees. We hold cash and cash equivalents at March 31, 2020 to `1,679 crores as at March 31, 2021. These mainly
principally in Indian rupees, GBP, Chinese Renminbi, EURO and USD.
Out of cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, 2021, Jaguar Land
Passenger Vehicle dealers, for which we are pursuing recovery.
to an increase in volumes at Tata Motors. This decrease was offset by a
three months or longer mainly at Jaguar Land Rover.
current portion (net of allowances for credit losses), of `34,715 crores, 42 inventory days in sales in FY 2020-21, compared to 43 inventory days
compared to `31,079 crores as at March 31, 2020, an increase of in FY 2019-20.
Resilience and Rebound | 115

--- Page 85 ---
has investments in mutual funds of `1,578 crores as at March 31, 2021, Accounts payable (including acceptances) were `76,040 crores as at compared to `885 crores as at March 31, 2020. March 31, 2021, compared to `66,398 crores as at March 31, 2020, an increase of 14.5%, reflecting an increase in operations and an unfavourable Our other assets (current and non-current) decreased by 32.1% to `7,907
foreign currency translation of `4,195 crores from GBP to Indian rupees.
towards current maturities of long-term borrowings increased to `21,129
crores as at March 31, 2021 from `9,336 crores as at March 31, 2020.
`260 crores. Derivative financial instruments (representing options
March 31, 2020.
Income tax assets (both current and non-current) increased by 44.3% to decreased by 40.6% to `4,480 crores as at March 31, 2021 from
`1,869 crores as at March 31, 2021 from `1,295 crores as at March 31, `7,536 crores as at March 31, 2020.
2020 mainly at Jaguar Land Rover.
Intangible assets decreased by 7.0% from `69,195 crores as at
led recovery.
there were product development projects in progress amounting to move to a net liability position as at March 31, 2021 from net asset position
`12,587 crores compared to `27,023 crores as at March 31, 2020. as at March 31, 2020.
post-retirement benefits and liability of `1,175 million toward cash flow
2021, compared to `1,02,448 crores as at March 31, 2020.
recorded as at March 31, 2021, compared to `3,516 crores as at March 31, Total equity was `56,820 crores as at March 31, 2021 and `63,892 crores as
2020. at March 31, 2020, respectively.
116 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 86 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Equity attributable to shareholders of Tata Motors Limited decreased to In FY 2020-21, the net outflow in vehicle finance receivables was `4,387 `55,247 crores as at March 31, 2021, compared to `63,079 crores as at crores compared to inflow of `2,021 crores in FY 2019-20. For Tata March 31, 2020. This decrease is mainly due to losses of `13,451 crores Commercial Vehicles and Tata Passenger Vehicles there was an inflow and actuarial losses in pension reserve of `5,901 crores, offset by hedging of `4,226 crores in FY 2020-21 on account of changes in operating reserve gain of `4,147 crores, currency translation reserve gain of `3,853 assets and liabilities, compared to `678 crores in FY 2019-20, which was
crores and securities premium of `2,556 crores pursuant to conversion of mainly attributable to an increase in trade payables and acceptances.
on account of changes in operating assets and liabilities accounting to
C. CASH FLOW
`527 crores in FY 2020-21, compared to inflows of `2,462 crores in The following table sets forth selected items from consolidated cash flow FY 2019-20. This is mainly due to provisions in FY 2020-21 compared to
statement: FY 2019-20.
Cash from operating activity 29,001 26,633 2,368 payments by Jaguar Land Rover’s foreign subsidiaries in their respective
Profit/(Loss) for the year (13,395) (11,975) tax jurisdictions.
Direct taxes paid (2,105) (1,785)
capital expenditure, both at Jaguar Land Rover and Tata Motors Limited.
Payment for property, plant and (19,855) (29,530) The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flow on property,
equipment and other intangible plants and equipment and intangible assets for the periods indicated.
and cash equivalent (11.9% of revenue), significantly lower than the GB£3.3 billion (14.3%
Cash and cash equivalent, end of 31,700 18,468 of revenue) in the prior fiscal year, due to continued Charge+ savings.
entities. in FY 2019-20. These capital expenditures are related to new products under
development.
as described below. offset by higher realisation of fixed deposit in FY 2020-21, compared to
FY 2019-20.
Resilience and Rebound | 117

--- Page 87 ---
Financing, compared to decrease of `3,271 crores in FY 2019-20. For to March 31, 2020. Lease obligations totalled GB£519 million in FY 2020-21
Jaguar Land Rover, short-term debt (excluding lease liabilities) increased to compared to GB£541 million in FY 2019-20.
paid was `2,892 crores in FY 2020-21, compared to `3,085 crores in FY
2019-20.
D. KEY FINANCIAL RATIOS
The details of significant changes (25% or more) in the key financial ratios in FY 2020-21 compared to FY 2019-20 is as follows:
coverage exceptional items and tax at both Tata motors and Jaguar Land Rover, in FY 2020-21 compare to FY 2019-20, the
ratio (in interest coverage ratio is high.
reserve of `5,901 crores, offset by hedging reserve gain of `4,147 crores, currency translation reserve gain of
`3,853 crores and securities premium of `2,556 crores pursuant to conversion of share warrants.
E. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES debt instruments. We regularly monitor funding options available in the
We finance our capital expenditures and research and development debt and equity capital markets with a view to maintain financial flexibility.
sale of investments, including divestments in stakes of subsidiaries on a instruments related to liquidity, foreign exchange and interest rate
selective basis. exposures and use of derivatives for risk management purposes.
The key element of the financing strategy is maintaining a strong financial The following table sets forth our short- and long-term debt position:
118 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 88 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
During FY 2020-21 and FY 2019-20, the effective weighted average interest rate on our long-term debt was 5.1% and 5.9% per annum, respectively.
The following table sets forth a summary of long-term debt (including current maturities of long-term borrowings) outstanding as of March 31,
2021.
long-term borrowings) as of March 31, 2021. maintained in other currencies to meet operational requirements in
those geographic regions.
Rs. 28,900 crores in property, plants and equipment and product
After one year and up to two years 27,800 development during FY 2021-22.
were senior notes and bank loans of `56,484 crores. debt from time to time, as necessary but targeting a reduction in the
The following table sets forth our total liquid assets, namely cash and coming years to achieve a net cash position from FY 2024-25.
Total mutual fund investments 19,051 10,862 operational and financial performance by reducing cost resultant into
Total liquid assets 65,097 44,159 positive free cash flow for FY 2020-21, compared to FY 2019-20.
Resilience and Rebound | 119

--- Page 89 ---
Research Limited (“CARE”), Information and Credit Rating Agency of Share per Warrant, at a price of `150 per Warrant (‘Warrant Price’), India Ltd. (“ICRA Limited” or “ICRA”), Credit Rating Information Services aggregating to `3,470 crores on a preferential basis to Tata Sons of India Ltd. (“CRISIL Ltd” or “CRISIL”), Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group Private Limited. An amount equivalent to 25% of the Warrant Price was (“S&P”) and Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”). A credit rating is paid at the time of subscription and the balance 75% of the Warrant not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. A credit rating Price was payable by the Warrant holder against each Warrant at the may be subject to withdrawal or revision at any time. Each rating should time of allotment of Ordinary Shares pursuant to exercise of the options
be evaluated separately of any other rating. The credit rating of Tata attached to Warrant(s) to subscribe to Ordinary Share(s) by June 2021.
repayment of debt, and other general corporate purposes of the
Long-term Short-term Company and its subsidiaries.
S&P B / Negative - issued during the year ended March 31, 2020. The Company has not
Moody’s B1 / Negative - utilised any of this amount as at March 31, 2021.
facilities stood at “AA -/ Stable”, rate of 5.875% for funding capital requirements and other permitted
Subsequently, S&P and Moody’s revised the outlook of Tata Motors use as per ECB guidelines.
We believe that we have sufficient liquidity available to meet our borrowings including ECB’s continued to be a major source of funds for
long-term borrowing and raised `4,320 crores during FY 2019-20.
Europe or China, which are beyond our control. A decrease in the (“UKEF”), GB£448 million of this loan remained outstanding at 31 March
demand for our vehicles could affect our ability to obtain funds from 2021, after GB£125 million of the loan amortized during FY 2020-21.
impact our business. Given the significant uncertainties arising out of
with GB£110 million drawn at 31 March 2021).
jurisdictions, notably South Africa and Brazil, is subject to certain
and capital spending requirements.
and we do not believe that these restrictions have, or are expected to of 4.250% issued by Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc in November
have, any impact on our ability to meet our cash obligations. 2014 matured and were fully repaid.
To refinance our existing borrowings and support our long-term funding
matured and were fully repaid.
needs, we continued to raise funds during FY 2019-20 and FY 2020-21.
provided below. amounting to `500 crores from Banks for general corporate purpose
and funding capital requirements.
120 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 90 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) expenditure including intangibles, refinancing of existing indebtedness March 2021. Under the terms of this facility receivables are accounted and other general corporate purposes. as sold (through trade receivables in working capital) and therefore not
accounted as debt under Ind AS.
million senior notes due in 2025 at a coupon of 7.75% per annum. In
requirements.
sales of undertakings and investments in subsidiaries. In addition,
matured and were fully repaid.
towards refinancing and meeting general corporate purposes. ratios, liquidity ratios, capital expenditure ratios and debt coverage
ratios.
was `2,063 crores. Bank borrowings continued to be a major for deployment of long-term funds to address any potential non-
source for long-term borrowing and TMFHL and its subsidiaries compliance.
On June 30, 2020, we notified one of our Indian lenders in respect of
`110 crores.
generated from operations, overdraft facilities with banks, short- given a waiver of the Company’s failure to maintain this ratio before
and medium-term borrowings from lending institutions, banks and March 31, 2023.
minimum liquidity requirement in the case of the UKEF facility (and
`16,363 crores as of March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
advances of Tata Motors Limited, both present and future. The working limited to 50% of its cumulative consolidated net income (as defined
capital limit is renewed annually for Tata Motors Limited. Tata Motors in the relevant financing documentation) from January 2011.
Limited currently has `1,000 crores revolving credit facility which As of March 31, 2021, the estimated amount that is available for
remained undrawn as of March 31, 2021. distributions was approximately GB£4.4 billion.
of GB£278 million equivalent under the US$500 million committed currently plan to invest over `28,900 crores in FY 2021-22 in new
invoice discounting facility, which was renewed for another 2 years in products and technologies.
Resilience and Rebound | 121

--- Page 91 ---
Our capital expenditures in India during FY 2020-21 related mostly to (i) may be impaired. If any such impairment exists, the recoverable amount
the introduction of new products, such as the Tata Altroz i-turbo, Tiago of an asset is estimated to determine the extent of impairment, if any.
of planned future products and technologies, and (iii) quality and asset, we estimate the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the
reliability improvements aimed at reducing operating costs. asset belongs.
derivatives, as well as the launch of new and refreshed 2021 model year
be impaired.
Wolverhampton and for upcoming product launches in FY 2021-22. to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been
We continue to focus on development of new products for our various adjusted.
economy and reduce carbon dioxide emissions, such as the expansion
loss account.
including eight plug-in hybrid and eleven mild hybrid models as well as Finance receivables
the all-electric Jaguar I-PACE.
expand our presence in the Passenger Vehicle and Commercial macro-economic factors, such as GDP growth, fuel price and inflation as
Vehicle categories.
F. Critical Accounting Policies economic uncertainty, observable changes in portfolio performance,
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Ind AS and other relevant factors.
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the years judgement in determining at what point in a vehicle programs lifecycle
presented. The actual results may differ from these estimates. that recognition criteria under accounting standards is satisfied.
are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised, and future vehicle warranty obligations vary depending upon the type of the
periods are affected. product, geographical location of its sale and other factors.
estimates are established using historical information on the nature,
financial statements are included in the following notes:
indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of years and for batteries in Electric Vehicles warranty period is typically
the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment up to eight years.
On each balance sheet date, we assess whether there is any indication that separate asset. Actual claims incurred in the future may differ from our
any property, plants and equipment and intangible assets with finite lives original estimates, which may materially affect warranty expenses.
122 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 92 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Employee Benefits The Board takes responsibility for the overall process of risk management throughout the organization. Through an Enterprise Risk Employee benefit costs and obligations are dependent on assumptions Management programme, our business units and corporate functions used in calculating such amounts. These assumptions include salary address risks through an institutionalized approach aligned to our increases, discount rates, health care cost trend rates, benefits earned, objectives. This is facilitated by internal audit. The Business risk is interest costs, expected return on plan assets, mortality rates and other managed through cross-functional involvement and communication
factors.
in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our employee business risk areas covering operational, financial, strategic and
benefit costs and obligations. regulatory risks.
consequences of temporary differences between the carrying values of report that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to
assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and unutilized business materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.
against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses, initiatives have not had a significant impact on our internal control
depreciation carryforwards and unused tax credits could be utilized. over financial reporting.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS AND THEIR ADEQUACY
During FY 2020-21, we assessed the effectiveness of the Internal We have an adequate system of internal controls in place. We have Control over Financial Reporting and has determined that our documented policies and procedures covering all financial and operating Internal Control over Financial Reporting as at March 31, 2021
functions. These controls have been designed to provide a reasonable is effective.
assurance regarding maintaining of proper accounting controls for
HUMAN RESOURCES / INDUSTRIAL RELATIONS
ensuring reliability of financial reporting, monitoring of operations, and protecting assets from unauthorized use or losses, compliances with We consider our human capital a critical factor to our success. Under regulations. We have continued our efforts to align all our processes and the aegis of Tata Sons and the Tata Sons promoted entities, the controls with global best practices. Company has drawn up a comprehensive human resource strategy, which addresses key aspects of human resource development such
Some significant features of the internal control of systems are:
as:
• The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, comprising of
independent directors and functional since August 1988, regularly • The code of conduct and fair business practices;
to the performance of the businesses which identifies and
changes in accounting policies and practices, if any;
differentiates employees by performance level;
as part of compliance programme towards Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as
increasing their mobility through job rotation among the entities;
required by the listing requirements at New York Stock Exchange;
• State-of-the-art Enterprise Resource Planning, supplier relations
as well as managerial competence.
on-year reviews, annual financial and operating plans and monthly retain the better and advance the best. Some of the initiatives to meet
monitoring are part of the established practices for all operating and this objective include:
service functions;
• A well-established, independent, multi-disciplinary Internal Audit team of repute to foster academia-based research and provide
operates in line with governance best practices. It reviews and reports avenues for employees to further their educational studies;
well as the key process risks. The scope and authority of the Internal
attract the best;
by the Audit Committee; and Anti-fraud programmes including whistle • Foster diverse workforce to leverage the multiplicity of
blower mechanisms are operative across the Company. skillsets in all its operations;
Resilience and Rebound | 123

--- Page 93 ---
• Skill development of all Blue collared workforce to enable functional academies is to strengthen knowledge, skills and expertise
them to effectively meet the productivity and quality with an in-depth approach, within respective function.
centers in all the plants. These trainees are given Automotive organization’s technical roadmap on Connected, Electric, Shared &
Skill Development Council certification, helping them get Safe vehicles (CESS).
The Customer Excellence Academy delivers the capability building
the company to meet the cyclicality of demand as well.
We employed approximately 75,278 and 78,906 permanent employees partners. These training interventions are planned for Dealer Sales
as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The average number of Agents to provide best in class experience to our customers.
management and leadership skills. Tata Motors Academy also provides
19,169 in FY 2019-20.
executive education opportunities in the areas of B.Tech, M.Tech, and
The following table set forth a breakdown of persons employed by the Executive MBA.
Keeping up with the digital age, the academy has also embarked upon a
31, 2021 and 2020.
No. of Employees (Segment wise)
functional as well as management education pillars.
leadership roles in the organization by enabling us identifying potential
candidates and enabling their development.
enhancing our craftsmanship and improving manufacturing and
assembly processes.
Apprenticeship program (newer craftsman trades) and introduction of
the Bachelor of Vocational Education program.
quality, poor craftsmanship, high frequencies of repair reworking and
India Abroad low productivity levels through training of front-line team members.
workforce through a structured approach. The Academy focuses on part of this program are working on challenging projects sponsored
three functional pillars – customer excellence, product leadership, and and mentored by the Executive Committee members of Tata Motors.
124 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 94 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Leave and Adoption Leave for our gentlemen colleagues to support technology, engineering and mathematics) subjects as well as parenthood. The Company employed 5.48% women employees in FY introducing successful female role models to girls as young as seven
2020-21 compared to 5.79% in FY 2019-20. to increase their interest in engineering.
locations/subsidiaries are as follows: Land Rover Apprentices, Graduates and Young Professionals from
across the business.
Lucknow March 31, 2020* provided with a Jaguar Land Rover female engineering mentor. During
Pantnagar March 31, 2022 FY 2019-20, 13 females joined JLR on this program.
The wage agreements at our Lucknow location, Sanand location and Leadership Summit program. Both programmes offer learning from
Jaguar Land Rover have expired and negotiations are underway for world-class business leaders and contributors.
program aimed at identifying and developing high potential talent
reached.
total employee involvement. We have generally received union support additional support would be required to enable females in Jaguar Land
in its implementation of reforms that impact quality, cost erosion and Rover to flourish and reach their full potential.
membership has continued to steadily grow and in March 2020 they
on account of fixed pay.
Jaguar Land Rover has one of the largest apprenticeship programs in the
important inclusive behaviour.
apprentice engineers and technicians developing their skills to help also continued to run regular networking lunches and was able to
support the delivery of Jaguar Land Rover’s Reimagine strategy. Jaguar switch to doing this virtually as the pandemic started.
members during the last year, expanding across sites and functions
and 6 automotive related Apprenticeship.
Jaguar Land Rover focuses on promoting gender equality though
gender and diversity more widely.
Resilience and Rebound | 125

--- Page 95 ---
Human Rights car sales may rise by 30% in the US, China and Europe. 55% of all new
car sales in Europe may be fully electrified by 2030.
in the territories in which Jaguar Land Rover operates. These include technologies while balancing production with sales, is key for the
provisions addressing slavery, human trafficking, forced labour, child success of the Company.
labour and upholding each employee’s right to freedom of association.
IMMEDIATE AND SHORT TERM
Jaguar Land Rover has refreshed the assessment of slavery and human trafficking risks related to our operations and continue to deem While there still seems to be uncertainty around the duration and the risk to be low. the impact of COVID-19 pandemic, we anticipate demand situation to
continue to improve despite ongoing COVID-19 related lockdowns.
OUTLOOK
After witnessing a decline in past two years, it is anticipated that LONG TERM domestic Commercial Vehicles Industry (especially MHCV’s) will see The automobile industry is supported by various factors such as improvement. Supply bottlenecks and commodity pressures remain availability of skilled labour at low cost, robust R&D centres, and low- key concern area in the short term. Focus areas for Jaguar Land Rover cost steel production. The industry also provides great opportunities for include the successful execution of the Reimagine strategy, including investment and direct and indirect employment to skilled and unskilled the continued expansion of electrification across the model range, labour. The Indian auto industry is expected to record strong growth in underpinned by the Refocus transformation programme. Management 2021-22, post recovering from effects of COVID-19 pandemic. India is is focused on cash and cost savings initiatives and focus on sustained expected to be the world’s third-largest automotive market in terms of improvement in domestic business. Management is focused on volume by 2026. significantly deleveraging the business and achieving net debt free
position in the next three years.
scrappage policy, recycled material will be useful for the automobile industry well into 2021. An ongoing shortage in semiconductor supply
industry as it will reduce cost of manufacturing cars, buses, and is disrupting production of parts and vehicles around the world.
of India during the COP21 Summit held at Paris to reduce emission autonomous vehicles, the importance of electronic components is
intensity by 33- 35% by 2030 from 2005 levels, it is pertinent to increasing. The chip shortage looks set to persist for some time yet.
coupled with India’s rapid economic growth, rising urbanization, travel expected in the short term, the shortage is expected to last into at least
demand and country’s energy security. Electric mobility presents a next year.
infrastructure and thus, has been on the radar of Government of India. to social distancing measures as well as mobility restrictions. Similarly
intercity travel via large intercity coach buses will also remain low.
energy storage and environmental sustainability. Electric vehicles is assumed for school segment, will severely impact the demand
could help diversify the energy needed to move people and goods for buses.
thanks to their reliance on the wide mix of primary energy sources
OPPORTUNITIES:
Defender, and 2021 model year updates across the model range
additional employment generation of nearly 60 lakh jobs.
automotive industry. It is estimated that autonomous vehicles will
registration certificate may be declared as ‘end of life vehicle’.
126 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 96 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Vehicle owners will get scrap value for the old vehicle by the scrapping longitudinal architecture and electrified modular architecture (native center, which is estimated at 4 to 6% of ex-show room price of a new BEV architecture) for Land Rover products and a BEV only architecture vehicle. The state governments are advised to offer a road tax rebate dedicated to Jaguar and retain, right size, repurpose and reorganised
of up to 25% for personal vehicles and 15% for commercial vehicles. In Jaguar Land Rover global manufacturing and assembly footprint.
vehicle against the scrapping certificate. transformation programme which is targeting 3% incremental EBIT
margin by FY 2025-26 to support double digit EBIT margin ambition.
automobiles in the coming years and will help the nation achieve its through Reimagine will contribute to the goal of becoming net zero
pollution emission targets. The government’s plan for strengthening carbon by 2039.
the public transport sector under PPP models with an outlay of
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
`18,000 crores for operating 20,000 buses is encouraging for the electric vehicle industry. The scheme could strengthen the electric Statements in the Management Discussion and Analysis describing our vehicle industry if more number of e-buses could be supported through objective, projections, estimates and expectations may be “forward- the scheme. looking statements” within the meaning of applicable securities laws and regulations. Actual results could differ materially from those Jaguar Land Rover new Reimagine strategy paves the way for a future expressed or implied. Important factors that could make a difference to of modern luxury by design with quality and sustainability permeating our Company operations include, among others, economic conditions through every facet of Jaguar Land Rover business. This strategy aims affecting demand/supply and price conditions in the domestic and to launch Jaguar as a pure electric brand from 2025 by introducing the overseas markets in which we operate, changes in government
first Land Rover all electric model by 2024 with an additional five all regulations, tax laws and other statutes and incidental factors.
Resilience and Rebound | 127

--- Page 97 ---
Risk Factors Deterioration or uncertainty in global economic conditions Company has been, and may in the future be, adversely could have a material adverse impact on Company’s business, affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, the duration and sales and results of operations. economic, governmental and social impact of which is difficult to predict, and which may materially harm Company’s The automotive industry globally and Company could be materially business, prospects, financial condition and results affected by the general economic conditions and developments in
of operations.
India, including automotive and related industries. Deterioration of key
Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
to shifts in global trade and economic policies and outlook. Policies
during shutdowns while continuing to incur costs.
loans, business, prospects, results of operations, financial condition
pandemic related imposed restrictions are gradually eased.
and the trading price of the Company’s Shares and ADSs.
show signs of recovery, as schools and educational centers may take
thus, its business.
Company’s Jaguar Land Rover business has significant operations in the increasing number of office workplaces are extending work-from-home
United Kingdom, North America, continental Europe and China, as well arrangements or other flexible work arrangements.
or due to other factors, Jaguar Land Rover’s business, prospects,
Company’s employees have lost their lives as a result of the pandemic.
months basic salary ( i.e. total monthly fixed pay excluding allowances
condition and results of operations.
128 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 98 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) lives due to COVID-19. Various other initiatives have been announced, Write offs and Impairment of tangible and intangible assets such as making payments to temporary (contractual) workforce in the may have a material adverse effect on Company’s results of
period of lockdowns and not deducting existing leaves but granting operations.
assets to assess on an annual basis or trigger events basis whether the
pandemic and the uncertainties involved.
2020-21 (based on analytically derived unaudited estimates comprising
business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.
of `3,000 crores, `1,500 crores and `1,500 crores, respectively). essential raw materials may adversely affect its production
The Company continues to monitor the evolving COVID-19 pandemic and results of operations.
in working capital, GBP2.9 billion in investment and GBP2.1 billion in any significant problems or shortages of essential raw materials in the
cost and profits) over the duration of the Charge and Charge + programs future could adversely affect Company’s results of operations.
to maintain the financial discipline successfully deployed previously components are located across the world and some of them have
under Project Charge and Charge+. declared provisions related to force majeure under relevant contracts.
Further, the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting business disruptions operations at its global and Indian tier 1, 2 and 3 suppliers leading to
in several jurisdictions where the Company operates had and may inconsistent supplies.
Company’s business as a result of its global economic impact, including additional decrees may be instituted, and the impact they may have on
any recession that has occurred or may occur. Specifically, difficult the Company and its suppliers.
products, as well as limit or significantly reduce points of access to such exploring localization options and exploring alternative sources,
products. among others.
Resilience and Rebound | 129

--- Page 99 ---
Deterioration in automobile demand and lack of access to sufficient which Company uses in the production of vehicle electronics. Rare earth financial arrangements for Company’s supply chain could impair the metal prices and supply remain uncertain. China which is currently the timely availability of components to its business. In addition, if one or largest producer of rare earths in the world has, in the past, limited the
more of the other global automotive manufacturers were to become export of rare earths from time to time.
If Company is unable to find substitutes for such raw materials or pass
and may further adversely affect Company’s results of operations.
lithium-ion cells, which are critical for its electric vehicle production. supply of scarce raw materials, the Company’s vehicle production,
Any disruption in the supply of battery cells from such suppliers could business and results from operations could be materially affected.
vehicles increases. to increase as the Company and other manufacturers increase electric
vehicle production.
production schedules for certain vehicles from April 26, 2021 and the Company may not be able to adequately address changes in commodity
manufacturing facilities at Castle Bromwich and Halewood are operating prices even if they are foreseeable.
Indian operations, while the impact on production is relatively muted at results of operations.”). However, these arrangements may not
present, if the situation of semiconductor shortages continues, it could adequately protect the Company against these risks.
Intensifying competition could materially and adversely affect
Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Various mitigation steps such as close engagement with Semi-
results of operations.
access to the European Union single market. There is no assurance
of operations.
that the Company will be able to compete successfully in the global
Increases in commodities and input prices may have a material automotive industry in the future.
adverse effect on Company’s results of operations.
condition and results of operations. There is no assurance that the
personal mobility has created supply side constraint for these metals.
In addition, the Company is exposed to the risk of contraction in the mitigate the effects of increased competition in the Indian automotive
supply, and a corresponding increase in the price of rare earth metals, industry.
130 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 100 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) In addition, if the Company’s competitors consolidate or enter into other and financial condition. In addition, there is a risk that the Company’s strategic partnerships or joint ventures, they may be able to achieve greater quality standards can be maintained only by incurring substantial economies of scale. Some of the Company’s competitors have formed costs for monitoring and quality assurance. A decrease in the quality such strategic alliances in recent years. If the Company’s competitors of the Company’s vehicles (or public perception of such a decrease) are able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or could damage the Company’s image and reputation as a premium strategic partnerships, the Company’s competitiveness could be automobile manufacturer and materially affect the Company’s business, adversely affected. Further, the Company’s growth strategy relies on prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the expansion of its operations in less mature markets abroad, where non-traditional market participants and/or unexpected disruptive it may face significant competition and higher than expected barriers innovations may disrupt the established business model of the industry to entry. by introducing new technologies, distribution models and methods of transportation A significant reliance on key markets by both Tata Motors and Jaguar Land Rover increases the risk of a negative impact There is also a risk that the capital invested on researching and from reduced customer demand in those countries developing new technologies, including autonomous, connected and The Company relies on certain key markets, including the United electrification technologies, or the capital invested in mobility solutions Kingdom, China, North America, India and continental Europe, from to overcome and address future travel and transport challenges, which it derives substantial portion of its revenues. A decline in demand will, to a considerable extent, have been spent in vain, because for the Company’s vehicles in these major markets may, significantly the technologies developed or the products derived therefrom are impact its business, financial condition and results of operations. For unsuccessful in the market or exhibit failures that are impracticable example, adverse public perceptions towards diesel powered vehicles, or too costly to remedy or because competitors have developed better resulting from emissions scandals and tax increases on diesel vehicles, or less expensive products. It is possible that the Company could then have precipitated a sharp fall in diesel vehicle sales, primarily in the be compelled to make new investments in researching and developing United Kingdom and the European Union. In addition, the Company’s other technologies to maintain its existing market share or to win back
strategy, which includes new product launches and expansion into the market share lost to competitors.
and quality. investment in property, plants and equipment, further exacerbates the
risks associated with incorrectly assessing demand for its vehicles.
and features). Customer preferences in certain more mature markets condition and results of operations could be materially and
have trended towards smaller and more fuel-efficient or electric and adversely affected.
volume levels, and could have a material adverse effect on Company’s geographical markets that feature higher growth potential than many
general business activity, net assets, financial position and results of the more mature automotive markets in developed countries.
of operations.
affected if it fails to develop, or experience delays in its planned roll a strong performance oriented culture and using data analytics and
out of fuel-efficient and electric vehicles and certain technologies leveraging on new technologies.
Resilience and Rebound | 131

--- Page 101 ---
its supply chain, among other environmentally driven strategies by Liquidity—Loan Covenant under Management Discussion and Analysis
2039. Expanding into electric vehicles with the goal of completely for more information.
impediments on the ability of its companies in certain countries
rapidly changing consumer preferences and technological advances.
to transfer cash across its companies through loans or dividends.
all. As with most new technological advances, Jaguar Land Rover may
certain jurisdictions.
and results of operations could be adversely affected. Moreover, rapid the ratings they have assigned and their ratings may be subject to
technological growth and shifts in consumer demand for the latest revision, suspension or withdrawal by the rating agency at any time.
its business strategies that could adversely affect its ability to achieve
sell or hold securities.
achieve anticipated operating results; the difficulty of managing the liabilities under, environmental, health and safety laws and
operations of a larger company; the difficulty of competing for growth regulations applicable to them.
opportunities with companies that have greater financial resources The Company’s production facilities are subject to a wide range of
than the Company has; and other similar operational and business increasingly strict environmental, health and safety requirements.
legal requirements, environmental permits and other similar types of health and safety conditions in the workplace. Many of the Company’s
governmental consents, liquidity, trade financing or cash management operations require permits and controls to monitor or reduce pollution.
The Company’s main sources of liquidity are cash generated from
unauthorized acts of the Company’s employees, suppliers or agents.
and availability of finance for the Company’s business and operations. Transboundary Movement) Rules, 2016 as well as the rules and
See Liquidity and Capital Resources—Principal Sources of Funding regulations implemented under such legislation.
132 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 102 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) The Corporate Average Fuel Economy (“CAFÉ”) standards applicable formerly operated, regardless of whether Jaguar Land Rover caused to M1 category vehicles required the Company to demonstrate CAFE the contamination or the activity causing the contamination was legal compliance for the Company’s Passenger Vehicles, Commercial at the time it occurred. For example, some of Jaguar Land Rover’s Vehicles and Electric Vehicles M1 models. Any non-compliance could buildings at its Solihull plant and other plants in the United Kingdom are lead to penalties, product recalls and/or other punitive measures. TML undergoing an asbestos removal program in connection with ongoing has successfully complied with the Phase 1 CAFE requirements for FY refurbishment and rebuilding. In Jaguar Land Rover’s overseas facilities 2017, FY 2018 and FY 2019. Through the use of the CAFE calculator, prior to purchase, it undertook studies that informed it of the presence Company regularly monitors production volumes and process to ensure of contamination or otherwise in the ground prior to development. In that organizational level CAFE compliance (which will require TML to Brazil, Jaguar Land Rover’s manufacturing site is adjacent to a facility produce enough fuel-efficient models to compensate for those models (the “Itatiaia West” site), where organic solvent contamination of the having higher CO2 emissions in g/km) is established at all times during ground had previously occurred. Jaguar Land Rover has purchased the year. In addition, to support the Company’s compliance obligations, the Itatiaia West site and is currently progressing relevant permits the Company’s overall product portfolio needs to be enhanced with the for operation and developing plans for further remediation of the incorporation of electric and hybrid vehicles as well as the inclusion organic solvent contamination. The Itatiaia West site is listed on the of environmental-friendly technological features in existing and Environmental Regulators site (Instituto Estadual do Ambiente) as forthcoming models. contaminated. Some of these historical issues are being addressed in conjunction with Jaguar Land Rover’s site development works whilst In 2016, the Indian Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change
others are subject to ongoing treatment regimes.
gases are issued and traded, is now in Phase IV and currently applies
operations could be material.
Land Rover’s Slovakia manufacturing facility. The free allocation of Company is subject to risks associated with the automobile
EUETS carbon allowances significantly reduces in Phase 4 of the financing business.
In the United Kingdom, the Climate Change Agreement (“CCA”) covers adverse effect on Company’s business, prospects, financial condition
Jaguar Land Rover’s three vehicle manufacturing plants and one of and results of operations.
The Best Available Techniques Reference Document (“BREF”) for Jaguar to reduce the amount of financing receivables it originates, which could
Land Rover’s paint shops has been under review and in 2019 changes severely disrupt Company’s ability to support the sale of its vehicles.
Resilience and Rebound | 133

--- Page 103 ---
• Moratorium of six months for dues falling between March 1, 2020 Deterioration in the performance of any of the Company’s to August 31, 2020; subsidiaries, joint ventures or affiliates could materially and adversely affect its results of operations and financial • asset classification standstill benefit to over dues accounts where
condition.
moratorium has been granted;
of any of these subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates deteriorate, the
classification;
However, such regulatory measures are temporary in nature and is also subject to risks associated with joint ventures and affiliates
intended as a one-time relief, and there remains a still considerable wherein it retains only partial or joint control.
Rover may also decide to collaborate with other companies in order to
affecting its operations.
Agricole) in major European markets and Chase Auto Finance in the BMW, may be developed pursuant to agreements over which it only has
United States and have similar arrangements with local providers in a partial or joint control.
incentives to maintain demand for its vehicles, thereby materially and
Company’s success in the joint venture may be materially affected.
affecting Company’s business, prospects, financial condition and Company’s interests, Company’s future results and financial condition
results of operations. Additionally, if consumer interest rates increase may be materially affected.
or restrict their lending to certain classes of credit, consumers may
liability, warranties and recalls.
in these markets. or reliability of its vehicles, which may harm its reputation. Any harm
to Company’s reputation may result in a substantial loss of customers.
134 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 104 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
connection with the Takata Corporation‘s passenger airbag safety that might result from market fluctuations in currency exposures.
Furthermore, the Company may also be subject to class actions or other
or do not work as planned.
because individual components are deployed in a number of different quarterly and annual volatility in its operating results and cash flows
models across the Company’s brands. Any costs incurred or lost sales attributable to its financial hedging activities.
Any of the above may have a material adverse effect on Company’s
affect Company’s business and reputation.
financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.
arrangements could materially and adversely affect the
affect some Company’s financing arrangements.
Company’s financial condition and results of operations.
rates beyond 2021. On March 5, 2021, the FCA issued an announcement
pound, which could affect the Company’s Jaguar Land Rover business.
other currencies relative to the GBP (Jaguar Land Rover’s reporting to continue to administer LIBOR or may have other consequences which
currency), which may result in decreased profits to the extent these cannot be predicted.
alternative or successor benchmark rates are, or will be for a period of
facility), whereas the existing notes bear interest at fixed rates.
exchange exposure through use of financial hedging instruments, such
impact Company’s financing arrangements.
Resilience and Rebound | 135

--- Page 105 ---
consequences as relevant to those financing arrangements. While Company’s strategy to grow the business through capital Company may seek to amend the agreements related to its financing investments may not be successful or as successful as it
arrangements linked to LIBOR (or any alternative or successor expects.
electric as well as shared mobility services. Specifically, with the
relevant benchmark rate will continue to exist.
acquisitions and divestments may have a material adverse technology and vehicles, in order to achieve its goal of net zero carbon
effect on its future results and financial condition emissions across its supply chain, products and operations by 2039.
of numerous factors, some of which are outside its control. with cash flows from operating activities supported by debt capital
markets activities and bank funding as required.
Company has undertaken in the past or will undertake in the future will The electric vehicle market and related opportunities may not
not have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition evolve as anticipated.
and results of operations, as well as its reputation and prospects.
136 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 106 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
announced that the phase-out date for the sale of new petrol and diesel diesel vehicles with software that will allow them to reduce emissions.
challenges and accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles in India. As and will be able to manufacture the resulting products more rapidly, in
Company considers its strategy, it may over time increase its focus on larger quantities, with a higher quality and/or at a lower cost.
or targeted volumes and could have a material adverse effect on
increased costs of purchase.
partnership with Waymo to design, engineer and produce Jaguar develop better solutions and manufacture the resulting products more
I-PACE vehicles for Waymo’s autonomous vehicle mobility service. rapidly, in larger quantities, with a higher quality and/or at a lower cost.
initiatives that facilitate access to alternative modes of transport, and
partnership will be successful in achieving its commercial objective.
2024 and further five Land Rover models offering BEV options will be
financial condition and results of operations.
launched by 2026. (total of 6 Land Rover models offering a BEV option).
by 2039. If the Company is unable to achieve these objectives, it would
which it operates.
materially and adversely affect its business and reputation.
in established markets, has been characterized by increasing demand
adversely affect Company’s sales and results of operations.
of legislators in the United States and European Union and some of
virtual showrooms and online purchasing.
Resilience and Rebound | 137

--- Page 107 ---
The COVID-19 pandemic enforced lockdowns across key regions have In recent years, the automotive industry has increasingly offered adversely affected the financial performance of the Company’s dealers customers and dealers price reductions on vehicles and services to in FY 2020-21 and may continue to affect them in the near future. stimulate demand for vehicles, which has led to increased price cost of sales pressures and sharpened competition within the industry. Any of If dealers or importers encounter financial difficulties and Company’s the above may have a material adverse effect on Company’s revenue, products and services cannot be sold or can be sold only in limited
financial condition and results of operations.
numbers, the sales of such dealers and importers may be adversely
affected. Additionally, if Company cannot replace the affected dealers Company may be adversely affected by labor unrest.
support for dealers and importers and, under certain circumstances, and are covered by wage agreements, where applicable, with those
may even take over their obligations to customers, which would labor unions.
unrest in India, one at its Jamshedpur plant and the other at its Sanand
automobile manufacturers with a more diversified product range.
Jaguar Land Rover operates in the premium Passenger car and all- is no assurance that additional labor issues could not occur, or that any
terrain vehicles segments and provides a more limited range of models future labor issues will be amicably resolved.
geographic markets in which it operates could have a material adverse
rule” to a strike before a settlement is ultimately reached.
effect on Company’s performance and earnings.
confidence or corporate customers’ financial condition and
technology.
from purchasing new vehicles, defer a purchase further or purchase a
become more susceptible to unauthorized access to their systems.
smaller model with less equipment at a lower price.
commercial use and/or to lease vehicles, resulting in a postponement of condition could be materially adversely affected. In addition, Company
fleet renewal contracts. would likely experience negative press and reputational impacts.
138 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 108 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) impact on Company’s reputation, and, in extreme cases, material effect on Company’s business, as well as the market for securities of financial loss due to business disruptions. Indian companies, including the Company’s Shares and ADSs. Such incidents could also create a greater perception that investment in Company’s business and prospects could suffer if it loses one Indian companies involves a higher degree of risk and could have a or more key personnel or if it is unable to attract and retain its material adverse effect on Company’s business, prospects, results
employees.
of operations and financial condition, and also the market price of the
Company’s business and future growth depend largely on the skills of Company’s Shares and ADSs.
electrification and shared mobility trends are redefining conventional
material adverse impact on its financial performance.
are driving new business models. The Company’s business requires The sales volumes and prices for Company’s vehicles are influenced in
an engaged workforce with core capabilities in new and emerging skill part by the cyclicality and seasonality of demand.
impair its ability to implement its business strategy. Any prolonged
to the following year.
results of operations. In addition, conducting business internationally, United Kingdom (including the Engine Manufacturing Center (“EMC”) at
especially in emerging markets, exposes the Company to additional Wolverhampton) during the Easter, summer and winter holidays.
divergent commercial and employment practices and procedures. If any
of operations and prospects.
could influence the Indian economy and could have a material adverse
condition and results of operations.
Resilience and Rebound | 139

--- Page 109 ---
In addition, in the event Company breaches these covenants, the 31, 2020. This change was primarily driven by an increase in pension outstanding amounts due under such financing agreements could liabilities as a result of lower discount rates and higher inflation rate
become due and payable immediately and/or result in increased costs. assumptions applied, compared to the prior year.
cross-defaults under other financing agreements and the outstanding
divulgence of confidential information.
the Company could be subject to claims by affected parties, regulatory
Company’s pension plans could decline.
employees, including defined benefit plans. The Company’s pension reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash
liabilities are generally funded. However, lower returns on pension flows.
rates, and adverse changes in other critical actuarial assumptions,
actions of activist shareholders.
in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules by activist shareholders, the Company may not be able to respond
to determine the financial impact are published. effectively to such actions, which could be disruptive to its business.
Rover closed its defined benefit pension plans to new joiners as of third parties could materially and adversely affect Company’s
April 19, 2010. All new Jaguar Land Rover employees in its United business, financial condition and results of operations.
Company’s reputation could be affected, which, in turn, could have
the assets of the schemes, is expected to eliminate the deficit by 2028.
Cash contributions towards the deficit will be GBP60 million each
condition and results of operations.
will make up payments deferred (from April 2020 to June 2020) due property could materially and adversely affect its business,
to the COVID-19 pandemic over FY 2020-22. The revised schedule of financial condition and results of operations.
140 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 110 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) value in the future. Although the Company does not regard any of its Any failures or weaknesses in Company’s internal controls businesses as being dependent upon any single patent or related group could materially and adversely affect its financial condition
of patents, any material inability to protect such intellectual property and results of operations.
held by third parties, and it may be held liable for the infringement of
operation of various process level and management review controls.
address the material weakness identified and continually reviews and
United Kingdom laws.
intensive administration processes, oblige it to provide the personal to accurately report its financial condition and results of operations in a
data that it records to customers in a form that would require additional timely and reliable manner.
violations of the GDPR requirements compared to the previous regime. subject, which may have a material adverse effect on its
These sanctions depend on the nature of the infringed provision and business, financial condition and results of operations.
may not be honored fully or timely, or would result in insufficient
rules could have a significant negative effect on its financial position.
Some of Company’s vehicles make use of lithium-ion battery future. Such matters could materially affect Company’s business,
cells, which have been observed in some non-automotive prospects financial condition and results of operations.
in its electric vehicles make use of lithium-ion cells. On rare occasions,
policies may have a significant impact on Company’s business.
generated by its production facilities. The Company expects the
cells at various warehouses and at some of its manufacturing facilities.
number and extent of legal and regulatory requirements and its related
While the Company has designed its battery packs to passively costs of compliance to continue to increase significantly in the future.
addition, any field or testing vehicle failure, even if such incident does be subject to randomized testing and similar inquiries by regulatory
not involve Company’s vehicles, could subject it to lawsuits, product authorities with a focus on emissions and environmental performance.
Resilience and Rebound | 141

--- Page 111 ---
these governmental actions could significantly affect Company’s plans selling vehicles in contravention of the standards specified in the Act,
for global product development and may result in substantial costs, or required by the government to recall their vehicles.
including significant fines and penalties in cases of non-compliance.
the Indian taxation regime, which, among other matters introduced
Company’s revenue.
including the 2021 model year vehicles. Beginning with the 2022 model will not materially or adversely affect its business, prospects, financial
year vehicles, the rate is expected to increase to $14.00, to be followed condition and results of operations.
governments or import or tariff policies, could adversely affect the
Kingdom regulators for failing to meet emission reduction targets.
demand for Jaguar Land Rover vehicles and its results of operations.
Jaguar Land Rover expects to continue incurring approximately GBP12 actions, such as in the form of a tax on United Kingdom car exports
million in FY 2020-21 for credit purchases in China and Jaguar Land to the United States, should the new digital services tax be imposed.
compliance with consideration for global measures to support net zero years, Brazil has increased import duty on foreign vehicles, along with
ambitions as well as forecast stringent CO2 / Greenhouse gas (“GHG”) related exemptions provided certain criteria are met.
of Plug-in Hybrid Electric (PHEV) vehicles, and the total ban of all
Company’s Shares and ADSs.
Moreover, safety and environmental standards may at times impose
operations and financial condition.
pursuing the development and implementation of various technologies any adverse application or interpretation of the Competition
in order to meet the required standards in the various countries in which Act could adversely affect its business.
142 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 112 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Act. Furthermore, any agreement among competitors which directly or Compliance with new or changing corporate governance and indirectly involves determination of purchase or sale prices, limits or public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to Company’s controls production, sharing the market by way of geographical area compliance policies and increases its costs of compliance or number of subscribers in the relevant market or directly or indirectly results in bid-rigging or collusive bidding is presumed to have an AAEC The Company is subject to a complex and continuously changing in the relevant market in India and is considered void. The Competition regime of laws, rules, regulations and standards relating to accounting, Act also prohibits abuse of a dominant position by any enterprise. corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes- Oxley Act of 2002 and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the In 2011, the Government of India brought into force the combination “SEC”) regulations, Securities and Exchange Board of India (the “SEBI”) regulation (merger control) provisions under the Competition Act.. regulations, New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) listing rules, and the These provisions require acquisitions of shares, voting rights, assets Companies Act, as well as Indian stock market listing regulations. New or control or mergers or amalgamations that cross the prescribed or changed laws, rules, regulations and standards may lack specificity asset- and turnover-based thresholds to be mandatorily notified to and be subject to varying interpretations. Under applicable Indian laws, and pre-approved by the Competition Commission of India (the “CCI”). for example, remuneration packages may, in certain circumstances, Additionally, in 2011, the CCI issued the Competition Commission of require shareholders’ approval. New guidance and revisions may be India (Procedure for Transaction of Business Relating to Combinations) provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in Regulations, 2011 (as amended), which sets out the mechanism for continuing uncertainty and higher costs of compliance. The Company the implementation of the merger control regime in India. CCI has is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance extraterritorial powers and can investigate any agreements, abusive and public disclosure. However, the Company’s efforts to comply with conduct or combination occurring outside India if such agreement, evolving regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result conduct or combination has an AAEC in India. in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of In 2011, complaints were filed with the CCI against certain automakers management resources and time. In addition, there can be no guarantee on the ground that the genuine spare parts of automobiles manufactured that the Company will always succeed in complying with all applicable
by the OEMs were not made freely available in the open market in India laws, regulations and standards.
ordered to pay a penalty of `1,346.46 crores within a period of 60 days Act may subject the Company to higher compliance requirements,
of the receipt of order. Tata Motors challenged the order of CCI in Delhi increase its compliance costs and divert management’s attention.
Act. Also in 2019, the Supreme Court, extended the relief that was financial years, calculated for Tata Motors Limited on a standalone
granted by Delhi High Court during the pendency of the matter before it. basis under Ind AS, toward corporate social responsibility activities.
As of the date of this annual report, the matter remains to be listed for Furthermore, the Companies Act imposes greater monetary and other
further proceedings in due course. liability on the Company and its Directors for any non-compliance.
Resilience and Rebound | 143

--- Page 113 ---
it cannot assure you that it will be able to maintain compliance with than 50% of its equity interest is beneficially owned by non-resident such requirements in the future. Furthermore, the Company cannot persons. The non-resident equity shareholding in the Company may, currently determine the impact of certain provisions of the Companies in the near future, exceed 50%, thereby resulting in the Company Act and the revised SEBI corporate governance standards. Any increase being considered as being “owned” by non-resident entities under in Company’s compliance requirements or associated costs may have the Consolidated FDI Policy. In such an event, any investment by the a material and adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, Company in existing subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures and new financial condition and results of operations. subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures will be considered as indirect foreign investment and shall be subject to various requirements The Company is subject to risks associated with legal specified under the Consolidated FDI Policy, including sectoral limits, proceedings and governmental investigations, including
approval requirements and pricing guidelines, as may be applicable.
potential adverse publicity as a result thereof.
regulatory authorities may have significant adverse financial and materially affect the Company’s business, prospects, financial condition
reputational consequences on Company’s business and have a material and results of operations.
Company requires certain approvals or licenses in the
condition.
In any of the geographical markets in which the Company retain them in a timely manner, or at all, could materially and
operates, it could be subject to additional tax liabilities. adversely affect its operations.
tax matters. Any resulting tax assessment may be accompanied by or approvals, and their renewals, it cannot assure you that it will receive
a penalty (including revocation of a benefit or exemption from tax) or them in a timely manner, or at all.
additional fee for failing to make the initial payment.
errors, losses in jurisdictions that do not grant a related tax benefit, event of non-compliance or alleged non-compliance by the Company
changes in currency rates, acquisitions, investments, or changes in with any terms or conditions thereof, or pursuant to any regulatory action.
political pressures may increase the likelihood of adverse or aggressive Any of the above could materially and adversely affect the Company’s
interpretations of tax laws or regulations or the imposition of arbitrary business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations.
nonetheless be required to pay them. These amounts may be materially
generally, and the Company’s business, in particular.
protests against such policies, which have occurred in the past, could
in a sector in which foreign investment is restricted.
persons, are subject to investment restrictions specified in the foreign investment, currency exchange rates and other matters
Consolidated Foreign Direct Investment Policy (“Consolidated FDI affecting investment in India could change as well.
144 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 114 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) The Government of India has traditionally exercised and continues to affect the prices of securities in India, including the Company’s Shares, exercise influence over many aspects of the economy. The Company’s which may in turn affect the price of the Company’s ADSs. In addition, business and the market price and liquidity of the Company’s Shares and the governing bodies of the stock exchanges in India have from time to ADSs may be affected by interest rates, changes in policy, taxation, social time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations and civil unrest and other political, economic or other developments in or on price movements and margin requirements. Furthermore, from time affecting India. to time, disputes have occurred between listed companies and stock exchanges and other regulatory bodies, which in some cases may have Any significant change in the Government of India’s economic
had a negative effect on market sentiment.
securities market, there may, still be less publicly available information
Company’s business.
about Indian companies than for United States domestic companies.
international debt by rating agencies could adversely impact the
Company or its management.
the United States upon those persons or it may be difficult to effect
Reserve Bank of India policies and actions.
changes in monetary policy formulated by the RBI. The Company can States against those persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence,
make no assurance about future market reactions to RBI announcements including judgments predicated solely upon U.S. federal securities laws.
were the RBI to make major alterations to monetary or fiscal policy. foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages as excessive or
Certain changes, including the changes to interest rates, could negatively inconsistent with public policy.
economic recovery. the enforceability of such judgments is subject to the exceptions set forth
in Section 13 of the Civil Code.
“Articles of Association”) and Indian law govern the Company’s corporate
does not include arbitration awards.
Company than you would as a shareholder of a corporation organized in in the United States may not be enforced in India except by way of a suit
another jurisdiction. filed upon the judgment.
Stock exchanges in India, including BSE Limited (the “BSE”) have, in the a civil liability in India. Generally, there are considerable delays in the
past, experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of their listed resolution of suits by Indian courts.
have included temporary exchange closures, broker defaults, settlement enforcement. Any judgment in a foreign currency would be converted into
delays and strikes by brokers. Volatility in other stock exchanges, Indian rupees on the date of judgment and not on the date of payment.
Resilience and Rebound | 145

--- Page 115 ---
Risks Associated with the Company’s Shares and ADSs books of the depositary are closed, or at any time if the Company or the depositary deem it advisable to do so because of any requirement of Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian rupee law or of any government or governmental body, or under any provision and the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on the
of the deposit agreement (as defined below), or for any other reason.
Such fluctuations may also affect the U.S. dollar equivalent of any cash unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective
dividends in Indian rupees received on the Shares represented by the or an exemption from the registration requirements is available to us.
not commit that it would file such a registration statement. If any issue
must act through the depositary to exercise those rights.
voting or other direct rights as a shareholder with respect to the Shares holders of ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the
underlying the ADSs. Citibank, N.A. as depository (the “depositary”) depositary would receive upon the sale of such rights or securities.
Company’s ADSs, and only the depositary may exercise the rights of rights, their proportionate ownership interest in the company would
shareholders in connection with the deposited Shares. The depositary be reduced.
Company’s voting materials to ADS holders only if requested by the
could materially reduce the price of the ADSs.
depositary does not receive timely instructions from an ADS holder, Shares that can be traded freely in local markets by both local and
such ADS holder shall be deemed to have instructed the depositary international investors.
Company, the depositary is required to represent all Shares underlying sell, or the price at which a shareholder can sell, Shares at a
ADSs, regardless of whether timely instructions have been received particular point in time.
The Shares are subject to a daily circuit breaker imposed by stock
at a meeting of shareholders.
register transfers of ADSs generally when the Company’s books or the
the sale of the Shares will be subject to capital gains tax in India.
146 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 116 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
COMPANY’S PHILOSOPHY ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the performance of the Company with the objective of creating long-term As a Tata Company, the Company’s philosophy on Corporate Governance value for the Company’s stakeholders. As on date of this report, the Board is founded upon a rich legacy of fair, ethical and transparent governance comprises of 8 Directors, out of which 7 Directors (87.50%) are Non-Executive practices, many of which were in place even before they were mandated Directors. The Company has a Non-Executive Chairman and 4 Independent by adopting the highest standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity Directors (’IDs’), including 2 women IDs, comprise half of the total strength and ethical behaviour. As a global organisation, the Corporate Governance of the Board. All IDs have confirmed in accordance with Regulation 25(8) practices followed by the Company and its subsidiaries are compatible of the SEBI Listing Regulations that they meet the independence criteria as with international standards and best practices. Through the Governance mentioned under Regulation 16(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and mechanism in the Company, the Board along with its Committees undertakes Section 149 of the Act and the rules framed thereunder. The IDs have further its fiduciary responsibilities to all its stakeholders by ensuring transparency, stated that they are not aware of any circumstance or situation, which exist fairplay and independence in its decision making. or may be reasonably anticipated, that could impair or impact their ability to discharge their duties with an objective, independent, judgment and without The Company has adopted the Tata Code of Conduct for its employees, any external influence. The Company has received confirmation from all including the Managing and Executive Directors, which encompasses an the existing IDs of their registration on the Independent Directors Database appropriate mechanism to report any concern pertaining to non-adherence to maintained by the Institute of Corporate Affairs pursuant to Rule 6 of the the said Code. In addition, the Company has adopted a Code of Conduct for its Companies (Appointment and Qualification of Directors) Rules, 2014. Based Non-executive Directors which includes a Code of Conduct for Independent on the disclosures received from all the IDs and as determined at the meeting Directors, as specified under Schedule IV of the Act and Regulation 26(3) held on May 18, 2021, the Board is of the opinion that the IDs fulfill the of the SEBI Listing Regulations. Pursuant to Regulation 26(5) of the SEBI conditions of Independence as specified in the Act, NYSE listing manual and Listing Regulations, all members of senior management have confirmed that
SEBI Listing Regulations and are independent of the Management.
Practices (Insider Trading Code), pursuant to the provisions of Regulations limited companies in which he/she is a Director. All Non-Independent Non-
8 and 9 under the SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations, 2015. Executive Directors (‘NINEDs’) are liable to retire by rotation.
of Corporate Governance under the Securities and Exchange Board of India
at Board Meetings.
The Company has instated a comprehensive, robust, IT-enabled compliance of the SEBI Listing Regulations, pertaining to CEO and CFO certification for the
management system for tracking, managing and reporting on compliances Financial Year ended March 31, 2021.
2020, June 15, 2020, July 31, 2020, September 16, 2020, October 27,
regulatory compliances, as applicable to the Company.
overseeing the Company’s overall functioning. It provides strategic direction, secured online application, thereby eliminating circulation of printed agenda
leadership and guidance to the Company’s management as also monitors papers.
Resilience and Rebound | 147

--- Page 117 ---
The following table, illustrates the composition of the Board, Director’s attendance at Board Meetings held during the financial year under review and at the last AGM, number of Directorships held in other listed public companies, total number of committee positions held in other public companies, their shareholding in the Company’s shares or other convertible instruments and names of other listed entities in which Directorship is held, including category of Directorships,
as at March 31, 2021 :
Ms Hanne Sorensen 8 Yes - 1 - 1 - Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (ID)
DIN: 08035439
ID
Ms Vedika Bhandarkar 9 Yes - 5 3 5 - Tata Investment Corporation Limited (ID) DIN: 00033808 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Ltd. (Debt ID listed entity) (ID) Tata Motors Finance Ltd. (Debt listed entity)
(ID)
TMF Holdings Ltd. (Debt listed entity) (ID) Mr Kosaraju V Chowdary 4 NA - 3 - 4 - Reliance Industries Limited (NINED) DIN: 08485334 CCL Products (India) Limited (ID) ID(3) Divi's Laboratories Limited (ID) Mr Mitsuhiko Yamashita 5 NA - - - - - -
DIN: 08871753
NINED(4)
Mr Thierry Bolloré 5 NA - - - - - -
DIN: 08935293
NINED(5)
Dr Ralf Speth 4 Yes - - - - - -
DIN: 03318908
NINED(6)
Mr Guenter Butschek 9 Yes - 1 - - - -
DIN: 07427375
CEO & MD
Table Key: ( C) - Chairperson; (M) – Member; NINED – Non-Independent Non-Executive Director; ID-Independent Director; CEO & MD – Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director
(1) Excludes directorship in the Company, private companies, foreign companies, Section 8 companies.
(2) Pertains to memberships/chairpersonships of the Audit Committee and Stakeholders’ Relationship Committee in other Indian public companies as per Regulation
26(1)(b) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
(3) Appointed as an ID of the Company with effect from October 27, 2020.
(4) Appointed as an ID of the Company with effect from September 16, 2020, but underwent change in designation to NINED with effect from October 27, 2020.
(5) Appointed as a NINED of the Company with effect from October 27, 2020.
(6) Ceased to be a NINED of the Company on October 27, 2020 and the Number of Directorships, Committee positions and shareholding details are as on the date
of his cessation.
148 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 118 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) The Company uses the facility of video conferencing, permitted skill-domain mix of the Board and is supported by the Group Human
under Section 173(2) of the Act read together with Rule 3 of the Resources in this regard.
summarizes a mix of skills, expertise and competencies expected to
Conferencing (‘VC’).
be possessed by our individual directors, which are key to corporate
Board Effectiveness Evaluation: Pursuant to provisions of Regulation governance and Board effectiveness:
independence criteria prescribed under the Act and SEBI Listing
and driving change and long-term growth.
IDs’ meeting in accordance with the provisions of Section 149(8) read
solve problems and reach its goals.
Directors (‘WTDs’) and the Chairman as also the Board as a whole for or principal accounting officer or holding a position
FY 2019-20 and FY 2020-21, respectively and the flow of information involving performance of similar functions.
the Company has devised a policy for performance evaluation of the
perspective on global market opportunities.
out an annual performance evaluation of its own performance and the
extend or create new business models.
etc. The NRC has also reviewed the performance of the Individual of our customers, partners, employees, governments,
Directors based on their knowledge, level of preparation and effective and other stakeholders worldwide.
the ability to assess ‘build or buy’ decisions, analyze
Report.
Board Diversity: To ensure that a transparent Board nomination process culture, accurately value transactions, and evaluate
is in place, that encourages diversity of thought, experience, knowledge, operational integration plans.
appropriate blend of functional and industry expertise. At present, our accountability, protecting shareholder interests, and
8 member Board of Directors, comprises of 1 Executive Director, 3 Non- observing appropriate governance practices.
of which 2 are Women Directors, While recommending appointment Marketing and market share, build brand awareness and equity,
of a director, the NRC considers the manner in which the function and enhance brand reputation.
Resilience and Rebound | 149

--- Page 119 ---
Automobile Entrepreneur / Engineering & Financial Global Mergers & Board Service & Sales & Name of Director Industry Diversity Leadership Technology Expertise Exposure Acquisitions Governance Marketing Experience Mr Natarajan Chandrasekaran √ √ √ √ √ √ √ √ - Mr Om Prakash Bhatt √ - √ √ - √ √ √ - Ms Hanne Sorensen √ - √ √ √ √ √ √ √ Ms Vedika Bhandarkar √ - √ √ √ - √ √ √ Mr Kosaraju V Chowdary √ - √ - - √ √ √ - Mr Mitsuhiko Yamashita √ √ - √ √ √ √ - - Mr Thierry Bolloré √ √ - √ √ √ √ √ √ Dr Ralf Speth √ √ - √ √ √ √ √ √ Mr Guenter Butschek √ √ - √ √ √ √ √ √ Familiarisation Programme: Pursuant to the provisions of Regulation 25(7) and Regulation 46 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, kindly refer to the Company’s website https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/familiarisation-programme-independent-directors.pdf for details of the familiarisation programme for IDs on their roles, rights, responsibilities in the Company, nature of the industry in which the Company operates, business model
of the Company and related matters.
constituted Committees. The Chairperson of each Committee briefs the up steps in this matter. These reviews are to be conducted till the
Board on significant discussions at its meetings. During the financial money raised through the issue has been fully spent.
accepted by the Board. The minutes of the meetings of all Committees of auditor, adequacy of internal control systems, identify weakness or
the Board are placed before the Board for noting. deficiencies and recommending improvements to the management.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
iv. R ecommend the appointment/removal of the statutory auditor, The Audit Committee functions according to its Charter that defines cost auditor, fixing audit fees and approving non-audit/consulting its composition, authority, responsibility and reporting functions in services provided by the statutory auditors’ firms to the accordance with Section 177 of the Act, Regulation 18(3) read with Company and its subsidiaries; evaluating auditors’ performance, Part C of Schedule II of the SEBI Listing Regulations and US regulations qualifications, experience, independence and pending proceedings
applicable to the Company and is reviewed from time to time. Whilst, relating to professional misconduct, if any.
appointment, removal, performance and terms of remuneration of
Listing Regulation:
the chief internal auditor.
vi. D iscuss with the internal auditor and senior management,
statements before submission to the Board, focusing primarily on:
significant internal audit findings and follow-up thereon.
to ensure that the financial statements are correct, sufficient control systems of a material nature and report the matter to the
and credible; Board.
financial condition, results of Operations and the Directors’ nature and scope of audit, as well as conduct post-audit discussions
Responsibility Statement; to ascertain any area of concern.
- M ajor accounting entries involving estimates based on ix. R eview the functioning of the Vigil Mechanism under the Whistle-
exercise of judgment by Management; Blower policy of the Company.
subsidiaries, their status of audit plan and its execution, key internal
adjustments arising out of audit;
audit observations, risk management and the control environment.
- Disclosures made under the CEO and CFO certification and depositors, debenture holders, shareholders (in case of non-
payment of declared dividend) and creditors, if any.
- A pproval or any subsequent modification of transactions with
related parties, including omnibus related party transactions.
150 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 120 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) xii. R eview the effectiveness of the system for monitoring compliance expressing an opinion on the conformity of those financial statements
with laws and regulations. with accounting principles generally accepted in India.
rotating the Audit Firm every 10 years, to ensure independence in the
of the Code.
audit function.
The Committee comprises 4 members, all being IDs, who are financially
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (NRC)
literate and have relevant finance and/or audit exposure. Ms Vedika Bhandarkar, being the Chairperson of the Audit Committee is also the The NRC of the Company functions according to its terms of reference, Financial Expert under the applicable Indian and US Regulations. The that defines its objective, composition, meeting requirements, authority quorum of the Committee is two members or one-third of its members, and power, responsibilities, reporting and evaluation functions in
whichever is higher, with atleast two IDs. The Chairman of the Audit accordance with Section 178 of the Act and SEBI Listing Regulations.
Audit Committee meeting meet the Auditors before the financial results Charter, after incorporating therein the regulatory changes mandated
meeting. During the period under review, 9 Audit Committee meetings under the SEBI Listing Regulations, are as follows:
its meetings held during the year is as follows: the Board with the objective of achieving an optimum balance of
size, skills, independence, knowledge, age, gender and experience.
Category Meetings held Meetings
refresh of the Committees.
during tenure attended
Ms Vedika Bhandarkar ID 9 9 - Devise and review a policy on Board diversity.
Directors, in accordance with the criteria laid down, including IDs
Ms Hanne Sorensen ID 9 8 on the basis of their performance evaluation report.
The Committee meetings are held at the Company’s Corporate
material subsidiaries.
The Head - Internal Audit reports directly to the Audit Committee to ensure appointment of CFO the Committee shall identify persons, to the
independence of the Internal Audit function. During the year Mr Yamashita, Audit Committee and the Board of Directors of the Company.
- C arry out evaluation of every Director’s performance and support
Results have been approved.
The Committee relies on the expertise and knowledge of the management, “formulation of criteria for evaluation of Independent Directors and
the internal auditor and the statutory auditor, in carrying out its the Board”.
responsible for internal control over financial reporting and all procedures
Senior Management and recommend their remuneration.
laws and regulations as well as for objectively reviewing and evaluating - R ecommend the Remuneration Policy for Directors, KMP, Senior
the adequacy, effectiveness and quality of the Company’s system of Management and other employees.
internal controls.
- R eview matters related to voluntary retirement and early
B S R & Co. LLP, Chartered Accountants (ICAI Firm Registration No.101248 separation schemes for the Company.
W/W – 100022), the Company’s Statutory Auditor, is responsible
- Oversee familiarization programmes for Directors.
Resilience and Rebound | 151

--- Page 121 ---
- O versee HR philosophy, HR and people strategy and efficacy of no profits / inadequate profits to pay certain fixed remuneration HR practices including those for leadership development, rewards to their Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors, in
and recognition, talent management and succession planning accordance with the provisions of Schedule V of the Act.
(specifically for the Board, KMP and Senior Management).
as may be decided by the Board, and reimbursement of expenses for
March 15, 2021. The requisite quorum was present for all the meetings.
participation in the Board and other meetings.
Accordingly, it is proposed to pay Remuneration to Non-Executive
meetings held during the year is as follows:
of `250 crores, whichever is lower, for FY2020-21, FY2021-22 and
FY2022-23.
motivate employees to achieve results. Our business model promotes to the Non-Executive Directors for FY 2020-21 is payable subject to
customer centricity and requires employee mobility to address project shareholders’ approval.
and other employees, drafted in accordance with the provisions of the constituted committees, integrity and maintenance of confidentiality
Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations, kindly refer to https://investors. and independence of behaviour and judgement.
tatamotors.com/pdf/directors-appointment-remuneration.pdf.
one in which the Directors reside. As a policy, the Chairman abstains
Remuneration of Directors:
Directors is decided by the Board of Directors and distributed to of the Company, who are in full time employment of any other Tata
them based on their participation and contribution at the Board Company.
and Committee meetings and performance evaluation by the Given below are the Remuneration and Sitting Fees payable / paid by the
Board. Recently, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has notified Company to Non-Executive Directors during FY 2020-21:
152 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 122 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) (` in lakhs) The NRC, reviews and recommends to the Board the changes in the Sitting managerial remuneration, generally being increment in basic salary Name Remuneration(1) Fees and commission/incentive remuneration of the CEO & MD on a yearly Mr N Chandrasekaran (2) - 9.00 basis. This review is based on the Balanced Score Card that includes the performance of the Company and the individual director on certain Mr Om Prakash Bhatt 45.00 16.00 defined qualitative and quantitative parameters such as volumes, Ms Hanne Sorensen 40.00 16.20 EBITDA, market share, cashflows, cost reduction initiatives, safety, Ms Vedika Bhandarkar 45.00 13.00 strategic initiatives and special projects as decided by the Board vis-a- Mr Kosaraju V Chowdary (3) 20.00 4.40 vis targets set in the beginning of the year. This review also takes into Mr Mitsuhiko Yamashita (4) 20.00 5.20 consideration the benchmark study undertaken by reputed independent
Mr Thierry Bolloré (5) (7) - - agencies on comparative industry remuneration practices.
achieving long-term value creation, through retention and continuity in
from the Company.
(3) Appointed as an ID of the Company with effect from October 27, 2020. target of €550,000/- per annum upto a maximum of €825,000/-
per annum.
had vide passing of Special Resolution, approved the appointment
(5) Appointed as a NINED of the Company with effect from October 27, 2020.
approved payment of minimum remuneration to the CEO & MD in view
Executive Officer and Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC.
Some of the aforementioned Directors are also on the Board of the Section 198 of the Act, for FY 2019-20 and FY 2020-21 (upto February
Company’s subsidiaries and associates, in a non-executive capacity 14, 2021), which remuneration is within the prescribed limits.
Members, at the time of his appointment. re-appointment is available for inspection, as per the terms mentioned
in the Notice of this AGM.
Given below are certain details pertaining to the terms of appointment and payment of Managerial Remuneration to Mr Guenter Butschek, the CEO
& MD for FY2020-21, for more details on this subject matter kindly refer to the Notice of the forthcoming 76th AGM of the Company:
Resilience and Rebound | 153

--- Page 123 ---
(1) Amount shall be paid/payable subject to shareholders’ approval at the 76th AGM of the Company.
(2) Certain Perquisites and Allowances are based on realistic assumptions.
(3) Performance and Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) for FY 2020-21, which will be accrued post approval by the Board of Directors. The remuneration for February
15, 2021 to March 31,2021 is pro-rated basis the amount for FY 2020-21.
assumed at a constant of 1€=`85.57 (rate as on the date of payment for March 2021). The remuneration for FY 2021-22 is estimated on a similar basis as FY 2020-
21 but is pro-rated for a period of 3 months, that is upto June 30, 2021.
(5) Comprises contribution to Provident Fund and Gratuity as per the Rules of the Company.
years. The change in amount is mainly on account of foreign exchange conversion into Rupees (Euro rate fluctuates from `80.82 on April 1, 2018 to `85.57 on
March 31, 2021). The exchange rates used for remuneration are conversion rate on the date of actual payment.
with the help of survey conducted by Aon Hewitt, an independent global skills and experience, within the organization and the Board, in an endeavor
compensation consultant. The proposed remuneration is commensurate to introduce new perspectives, whilst maintaining experience and continuity.
ambitions of its talent force, to earn future leadership roles. The NRC have at
remuneration in the global automotive companies:
their meetings held on June 15, 2020, February 12, 2021 and March 15, 2021
Total Cost to Company (‘TCC’) with Long Term Incentive reviewed the succession planning of the Board and Senior Management.
after incorporating therein the regulatory changes mandated under the SEBI
The terms of appointment with respect to the severance notice period and Listing Regulations, are as follows:
fees payable to Mr Butschek, the CEO & MD, is as reproduced below:
- A pprove issue of duplicate certificates for securities and transmission
• The Contract with the CEO & MD may be terminated earlier, without of securities.
(including Living Allowance) and any pro-rated incentive remuneration,
duplicate certificates, general meetings, etc.
Company before the end of the term for reasons other than Tata Code of - R eview measures taken for effective exercise of voting rights by
Conduct (“TCoC”), the CEO & MD shall be entitled to severance pay for a shareholders.
and which shall be limited to provision of basic salary, living allowance in respect of various services being rendered by the Registrar & Share
and any pro-rated incentive remuneration. Transfer Agent.
of breach of TCoC, the CEO & MD shall not be entitled to severance. receipt of dividend warrants/annual reports/statutory notices by the
shareholders of the Company.
Education and Protection Fund and claims made by members /
stand terminated.
investors from the said fund.
The Directors of the Company are not eligible to receive employee stock - R eview movements in shareholding and ownership structures of the
options and have accordingly not participated in the Employee Stock Option Company.
Scheme 2018 of the Company.
- C onduct a Shareholders’ Satisfaction Survey to ascertain the level of
Retirement Policy for Directors satisfaction amongst shareholders.
As per the retirement age policy adopted by the Company, the Managing - Suggest and drive implementation of various investor-friendly
and Executive Directors retire at the age of 65 years. The retirement age for initiatives.
on Board Effectiveness. or enforced by any statutory notification / amendment or modification
Succession Planning as may be applicable.
154 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 124 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) under review, 3 SRC meetings were held on August 25, 2020, October 27, documents, sending notices to Stock Exchange and issue of duplicate
2020 and February 10, 2021. The requisite quorum was present for all the certificates/transmission of shares after approval from the Company.
meetings. However, all these cases have been attended to within the statutory
limit of 30 days.
meetings held during the year is as follows: There were no pending share transfers pertaining to the Financial Year
ended March 31, 2021.
(Chairperson) Company’s Works at Pune, sending reminders to investors who have
Ms Hanne Sorensen ID 3 3 not claimed their dues, sending nomination forms, etc.
Mr Guenter Butschek CEO & MD 3 3
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) COMMITTEE
Compliance Officer The Committee is constituted by the Board in accordance with the Act to:
24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai - 400 001, India. undertaken by the Company as specified in Schedule VII of the
Tel: 91 22 6665 7824, Email: inv_rel@tatamotors.com Act;
TSR Darashaw Consultants Private Limited at csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in, c. M onitor the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy of the
whereas complaints or queries relating to the public fixed deposits can Company from time to time.
be forwarded to the Registrars to the Fixed Deposits Scheme – M/s
TSR Darashaw Consultants Private Limited at tmlfd@tsrdarashaw. The CSR Policy is uploaded on the Company’s website https://investors.
to address various FD related matters mainly including repayment / Section 135 of the Act and Rule 9 of the Companies (Corporate Social
revalidation, issue of duplicate FD receipts / warrants, TDS certificates, Responsibility Policy) Rules, 2014.
steps for rendering speedy and satisfactory services to the FD holders. meetings were held on June 8, 2020 and February 26, 2021. The
The status on the total number of investor complaints during FY 2020- requisite quorum was present for all the meetings.
21 is as follows: The composition of the CSR Committee and attendance of its Members
at its meetings held during the year is as follows:
Type Nos.
time for attending to investors’ correspondence during FY 2020-21 is Butschek
shown in the following table:
(1) Appointed as a Member of the CSR Committee with effect from January 4,
2021.
to due to the lock-down on account of COVID-19 Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) (Amendment) Regulations,
pandemic. These have been replied in April 2021 2018, are as follows:
of case files, cases involving retrieval of very old records, co-ordination and risk management policies, practices and guidelines and
with the Company/Advocates etc, partial documents awaited from the procedures, including the risk management plan.
documents received for issue of duplicate certificates and transmission
framework.
Resilience and Rebound | 155

--- Page 125 ---
- R eview the Company’s risk appetite and strategy relating to key THE SAFETY, HEALTH AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE (SHS) risks, including product risk and reputational risk, cyber security The Committee reviews Safety, Health and Sustainability practices. The terms risk, commodity risk, risks associated with the financial assets
of reference of the Committee include the following:
rate funding risk and market risk, as well as the guidelines, - t o take a holistic approach to safety, health and sustainability matters in
policies and processes for monitoring and mitigating such risks. decision making;
- O versee Company’s process and policies for determining - t o provide direction to Tata Motors Group in carrying out its safety,
risk tolerance and review management’s measurement and health and sustainability function;
comparison of overall risk tolerance to established levels.
- t o frame broad guidelines/policies with regard to safety, health and
- R eview and analyze risk exposure related to specific issues, sustainability;
- to oversee the implementation of these guidelines/policies; and
across organization.
monitor breaches / trigger trips of risk tolerance limits and direct
time to time.
action.
The Members of the SHS comprise of 1 ID, 1 NINED and the CEO & MD.
The Chairperson of the SHS also attended the last Annual General
the Company.
- Carry out any other function as is referred by the Board from time meetings were held on June 8, 2020, September 15, 2020 and February
to time. 9, 2021. The requisite quorum was present for all the meetings.
The Committee operates as per its Charter approved by the Board and The composition of the SHS and attendance of its Members at its
within the broad guidelines laid down in it. The Company has a Risk meetings held during the year is as follows:
during tenure attended
with responsibility for each significant risk.
approach aligned to the Company’s objectives. The business risk is
managed through cross-functional involvement and communication (1) A ppointed as a Member of the SHS with effect from September 16, 2020.
across businesses. The results of the risk assessment are thoroughly
CODE OF CONDUCT
discussed with the Senior Management before being presented to the RMC. Whilst the Tata Code of Conduct is applicable to all Whole-time Directors and employees of the Company, the Board has also adopted the Tata Code The Members of the RMC comprise of 1 ID, 1 NINED, the CEO & MD and of Conduct for NINEDs and IDs as specified under Schedule IV of the Act Tata Motors Group Chief Financial Officer. The Chairperson of the RMC and Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations. The detailed Codes of also attended the last Annual General Meeting of the Company. During Conduct are respectively available on the website of the Company at https:// the period under review, 3 RMC meetings were held on June 8, 2020, www.tatamotors.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/10/09042523/tata-
September 15, 2020 and February 9, 2021. The requisite quorum was code-of-conduct1.pdf and https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/ned-id.pdf.
tenure attended compliance with their respective Codes of Conduct. A Declaration to this
Ms Hanne Sorensen ID 3 3 effect, duly signed by the CEO & MD is reproduced at the end of this Report.
(1) A ppointed as a Member of the RMC with effect from September 16, 2020. CodeCorporateDisclosure.pdf for the detailed Code of Corporate Disclosure
Policy of the Company.
156 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 126 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
GENERAL BODY MEETINGS
Annual General Meeting (AGM) Date of AGM Year Special Resolutions passed Venue and Time August 25, 2020 2019-20 • Approval and ratification for payment of Minimum Remuneration to Due to COVID-19 Virus Pandemic Mr Guenter Butschek (DIN: 07427375), Chief Executive Officer and held through video conferencing Managing Director for FY 2019-20. (‘VC’) /other audio visual means (‘OAVM’) at 2:00 p.m. (IST) • Approval for payment of Minimum Remuneration to Mr Guenter Butschek (DIN: 07427375), Chief Executive Officer and Managing
Director in case of no/inadequacy of profits during FY 2020-21.
of stock options to the Eligible Employees under the Scheme
There were no special resolutions proposed to be passed through Postal Ballot during FY 2020-21 or at the forthcoming AGM.
Limited (‘the Transferor Company’) and TML Business Analytics Services Limited (‘the Transferee Company’) and their respective shareholders
(‘Scheme’) The details of this meeting are as given below:
Limited (‘the Transferor Company’) and TML Business Analytics Services Limited (‘the Transferee Company’) and their respective shareholders
(‘Scheme’) The details of this meeting are as given below:
results are submitted to NSE, BSE, NYSE and SGX as well as uploaded on
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION
the Company’s website on a regular basis. The Company also issues press
The Company recognizes communication as a key element to the overall releases from time to time.
are published in newspapers, namely the Indian Express, Financial Express required to be executed by the shareholders have also been provided on the
and the Loksatta (Marathi). Additionally, the results and other important website of the Company.
information are also periodically updated on the Company’s website (www.
Resilience and Rebound | 157

--- Page 127 ---
Electronic Communication: The Company had during FY 2020-21 sent FINANCIAL CALENDAR (TENTATIVE) various communications including Annual Reports, by email to those shareholders whose email addresses were registered with the Company / Financial Year April 1 to March 31 Depositories. In support of the ‘Green Initiative’ the Company encourages Results for the Quarter ending Members to register their email address with their Depository Participant or June 30, 2021 On or before August 14, 2021 the Company, to receive soft copies of the Annual Report, Notices and other September 30, 2021 On or before November 14, 2021 information disseminated by the Company, on a real-time basis without any December 31, 2021 On or before February 14, 2022
delay.
March 31, 2022 On or before May 30, 2022
Scores: A centralised web based complaints redress system ‘Scores’ Date of Book Closure Not applicable.
uploading of Action Taken Reports by the concerned companies and online
by the Board for FY 2020-21.
viewing by the investors of actions taken on complaint and its current status.
LISTINGS
Green Initiative: All agenda papers for the Board and Committee meetings are disseminated electronically on a real-time basis, by uploading them on The Company’s shares are listed on the BSE Ltd. (BSE) and the National a secured online application. Stock Exchange of India Ltd. (NSE). The following are the details of the
Company’s shares:
GENERAL INFORMATION FOR MEMBERS
The Corporate Identity Number (CIN) allotted to the Company by the Type Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) is L28920MH1945PLC004520. ISIN INE155A01022 IN9155A01020 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING BSE – Stock Code 500570 570001 NSE – Stock Code TATAMOTORS TATAMTRDVR Date and Time Friday, July 30, 2021 at 3:00 p.m. (IST) BSE – Address Phiroze Jeejeebhoy Towers, Dalal Street, Venue In view of the continuing COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry Mumbai 400 001; www.bseindia.com of Corporate Affairs (‘MCA’) has vide its circular dated May NSE – Address “Exchange Plaza”, Bandra Kurla Complex, 5, 2020 read with circulars dated April 8, 2020, April 13, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051; www.nseindia.com 2020, and January 13, 2021 (collectively referred to as ‘MCA Circulars’) and SEBI Circular dated May 12, 2020 The holders of ‘A’ Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive a dividend for and January 15, 2021 (collectively referred to as ‘SEBI any financial year at five percentage points more than the aggregate Circulars’) permitted the holding of the Annual General rate of dividend declared on Ordinary Shares for that financial year but Meeting through video-conferencing / other audio visual are entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary Shares held as per the
means (‘VC / OAVM’), without the physical presence of terms of its issue and the Articles of Association.
the Stock Exchanges (both domestic and international) where the
the AGM of the Company is being held through VC / OAVM.
Company’s securities are listed.
For details please refer to the Notice this AGM.
As required under Regulation 36(3) of the SEBI Listing Regulations and of the Company as mentioned below, under the head ”Outstanding
Secretarial Standard 2, details of Director seeking re-appointment at Securities”.
this AGM are given in the Annexure to the Notice of the forthcoming
AGM.
MARKET INFORMATION
Market price data - monthly high/low of the closing price and trading volumes on BSE/NSE depicting liquidity of the Company’s Ordinary Shares and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares on the said exchanges is given hereunder:- Ordinary Shares ‘A’ Ordinary Shares
BSE NSE BSE NSE
Month High Low No. of High Low High Low No. of High Low No. of No. of Shares (`) (`) Shares (`) (`) (`) (`) Shares (`) (`) Shares April 2020 93.10 65.30 66364119 93.25 65.30 1172960711 39.80 29.60 8915761 39.75 29.55 90401719 May 2020 87.25 80.65 53041662 87.20 80.65 1137196293 36.30 33.80 4664779 36.35 33.75 67425224 June 2020 115.50 89.60 124558628 115.45 89.55 2061612730 48.10 38.90 9935536 48.05 38.90 142648950 July 2020 109.05 100.70 70852022 109.05 100.75 1236388047 43.20 37.45 5762662 43.25 37.50 100914858 August 2020 144.35 111.40 104701749 144.25 111.45 1866040897 55.30 39.35 35660786 55.05 39.35 271120205 September 2020 151.75 122.80 76508747 151.85 122.80 1583888897 66.45 50.70 17979246 66.55 50.70 233517107 October 2020 144.85 127.00 77216650 144.75 126.95 1287652030 65.10 54.30 9355521 65.05 54.20 114643370 November 2020 180.25 132.85 86659810 180.35 132.85 1284628508 78.20 55.05 12076416 78.15 54.95 158065341 December 2020 186.30 164.55 75390441 186.35 164.55 1191039967 78.50 67.70 8853122 78.60 67.55 126853223 January 2021 290.45 186.45 183133100 290.60 186.50 3110819324 113.45 76.40 22197884 113.55 76.45 347382860 February2021 335.85 279.75 144505279 335.95 279.60 2011804897 135.70 111.85 13120151 135.90 111.90 164632958 March 2021 348.50 285.50 85959250 348.50 285.55 1453847016 142.05 125.75 5952028 142.20 125.60 87312005 158 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 128 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
The Performance of the Company’s Stock Price vis-à-vis Sensex, Auto Index and American Depository Receipt (ADR):
The monthly high and low of the Company’s ADRs is given below: (iv) New Delhi: Plot No.2/42, Sant Vihar, Ansari Road,
Daryaganj, New Delhi – 110 002.
June 2020 7.64 5.93 Pvt. Limited: 3-Sumathinath Complex, Pritam Nagar Akhada
July 2020 7.30 6.66 Road, Ellisbridge, Ahmedabad -380 006.
Issue, for addressing any pre-Issue/ post-Issue related matter, including
value of `2/- each.
REGISTRAR AND TRANSFER AGENTS Pannalal Silk Mills Compound, L.B.S. Marg, Bhandup (West), Mumbai 400
For share related matters, Members are requested to correspond with 078; Tel: (91 22) 6171 5400 / 9167779196 /97; Fax: (91 22) 2596 0329;
the Company’s Registrar and Transfer Agents – M/s TSR Darashaw Website: www.linkintime.co.in; Email: tatamotors.rights@linkintime.co.in;
Consultants Private Limited quoting their Folio No./DP ID & Client ID at Contact Person: Mr Sachin Achar / Mr Sumeet Deshpande.
8494; e-mail: csg-unit@tcplindia.co.in ; website: www.tcplindia.co.in 2020 and SEBI/HO/MIRSD/RTAMB/CIR/P/2020 /236 dated December 2,
2020.
(i) B angalore: 503, Barton Centre, 5th Floor, 84, Mahatma
for dematerialisation.
Gandhi Road, Bangalore – 560 001.
Securities lodged for transfer at the Registrar’s address are normally
Tel: 080 – 25320321, Fax: 080 – 25580019, e-mail:
of shares and debentures and other investor related matters. Grievances
Tel: 0657 – 2426616, Fax: 0657 – 2426937, email :
change of address, mandates, etc. are processed by the Registrars within
(iii) K olkata: Tata Centre, 1st Floor, 43, Jawaharlal Nehru Road, 15 days.
Kolkata – 700 071.
The following compliances pertain to share transfers, grievances, etc.:
Tel: 033 – 22883087, Fax: 033 – 22883062, e-mail:
Resilience and Rebound | 159

--- Page 129 ---
by the Compliance Officer and the representative of the Registrar for transfer, sub-division, consolidation, renewal, exchange or
and Share Transfer Agent for maintenance of an appropriate share endorsement of calls/ allotment monies.
transfer facility.
Transfer of unclaimed / unpaid amounts / shares to the Investor Education
(2) P ursuant to Regulation 13 of the SEBI Listing Regulations, a and Protection Fund (IEPF):
(Accounting, Audit, Transfer and Refund) Rules, 2016 (“IEPF Rules”),
basis.
(4) P ursuant to Regulation 40(9) of the SEBI Listing Regulations, the
IEPF Authority, established by the Central Government.
Indian Stock Exchanges pursuant to Regulation 40(10) of the SEBI of which there is a specific order of the Court, Tribunal or Statutory
Listing Regulations. Authority, restraining any transfer of shares.
FITTC/Cir- 16/2002 dated December 31, 2002, to reconcile the total for 7 consecutive years or more, have also been transferred to the
admitted capital with depositories viz National Securities Depository demat account of the IEPF Authority.
the total issued and listed capital. The audit confirms that the total
IEPF during FY 2020-21 are as follows:
acknowledgement along with requisite documents, as enumerated in the Instruction Kit, to the Company. No claims shall lie against the Company in
respect of the dividend/shares so transferred. The Members/Claimants can file only one consolidated claim in a financial year as per the IEPF Rules.
Considering the above, there are no shares lying in the suspense account of the Company under Regulation 39(4) of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
The Company strongly recommends shareholders to encash / claim their respective dividend within the period given below from the Company’s
Registrar and Share Transfer Agents:
Debenture holders and Depositors informing them about the due dates for Procedure for claiming the aforementioned amounts transferred to the
transfer to IEPF for unclaimed dividends/interest payments, attention of IEPF Authority as detailed on http://www.iepf.gov.in/IEPF/refund.html.
the stakeholders is again drawn to this matter through the Annual Report.
also available on the Company’s website at https://www.tatamotors.com/
Street, Mumbai - 400 001, India. Tel: 91 22 6665 7824 Email: nodalofficer.
160 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 130 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
(ii) U pto March 31, 2021, the Company has transferred `44,25,72,848.34 to IEPF, including the following amounts during the year.
FY 2020-21
Particulars (`) Unpaid dividend amounts of the Company 1,55,73,105.00 Application moneys received for allotment of any securities and due for refund - Unpaid matured deposit with the Company 36,90,000.00 Unpaid matured debentures with the Company - Interest accrued on application money due for refund, unpaid matured deposits and debentures with the Company 2,66,455.00 Sale proceeds of fractional shares arising out of issuance of bonus shares, merger and amalgamation - Redemption amount of preference shares - Grants and donation - Others - Total 1,95,29,560.00
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDING AS AT MARCH 31, 2021
Ordinary Shares No. of Shares No. of shareholders Range of Shares No. of Physical Demat % of No. of Physical Demat % of Capital Shares Form (%) Form (%) Capital Holders Form (%) Form (%) 1 – 500 156,521,113 0.09 4.62 4.71 1,939,201 0.94 91.29 92.23 501 – 1,000 63,988,824 0.07 1.86 1.93 84,968 0.16 3.88 4.04 1,001 – 2,000 62,526,438 0.10 1.78 1.88 43,103 0.11 1.94 2.05 2,001 – 5,000 76,477,582 0.12 2.18 2.30 24,520 0.06 1.10 1.16 5,001 -10,000 46,648,392 0.06 1.35 1.41 6,651 0.02 0.30 0.32 10,001-1,00,000 83,919,860 0.08 2.45 2.53 3,584 0.01 0.16 0.17 Above 1,00,001 2,830,225,556 0.06 85.18 85.24 569 0.00 0.03 0.03 Total 3,320,307,765 0.58 99.42 100.00 2,102,596 1.30 98.70 100.00 ‘A’ Ordinary Shares No. of Shares No. of shareholders Range of Shares No. of Physical Demat % of No. of Physical Demat % of Capital Shares Form (%) Form (%) Capital Holders Form (%) Form (%) 1 – 500 24,827,632 0.01 4.87 4.88 209,902 0.26 83.30 83.56 501 – 1,000 14,784,740 0.01 2.90 2.91 18,746 0.01 7.45 7.46 1,001 – 2,000 15,816,252 0.00 3.11 3.11 10,569 0.01 4.20 4.21 2,001 – 5,000 23,417,278 0.00 4.61 4.61 7,242 0.00 2.88 2.88 5,001 -10,000 18,178,727 0.00 3.57 3.57 2,477 0.00 0.99 0.99 10,001-1,00,000 51,869,387 0.00 10.20 10.20 2,004 0.00 0.80 0.80 Above 1,00,001 359,608,880 0.00 70.72 70.72 258 0.00 0.10 0.10 Total 508,502,896 0.02 99.98 100.00 251,198 0.28 99.72 100.00 COMBINED SHAREHOLDING PATTERN (ORDINARY & ‘A’ ORDINARY SHARES) i) Category-wise Share Holding
No. of Shares held at the beginning of the year i.e. No. of Shares held at the end of the year i.e.
Resilience and Rebound | 161

--- Page 131 ---
No. of Shares held at the beginning of the year i.e. No. of Shares held at the end of the year i.e.
GRAND TOTAL (A)+(B)+( C) 3,577,239,328 20,237,462 3,597,476,790 100 3,809,397,853 19,412,808 3,828,810,661 100 0
ii) Top 10 Shareholders as on March 31, 2021:
10 Kuwait Investment Authority Fund 26,262,383 0.69
Note: Shareholding of Top 10 is consolidated based on Permanent Account Number of the shareholder.
162 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 132 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
DEMATERIALISATION OF SHARES
The Company’s Ordinary and ‘A’ Ordinary Shares are tradable compulsorily in electronic form. The electronic holding of the shares as on March 31,
2021 through the National Securities Depository Limited (NSDL) and the Central Depository Services Limited (CDSL) are as follows:
2021 2020 2021 2020
NSDL 93.38 94.26 85.04 91.48
CDSL 6.04 5.09 14.94 8.49
Total 99.42 99.35 99.98 99.97
OUTSTANDING SECURITIES
Outstanding Depositary Receipts/Warrants or Convertible instruments, conversion / maturity date and likely impact on equity as on March 31,
2021 are as follows:
• Depositary Receipts: The Company has 7,07,43,033 ADRs listed on the New York Stock Exchange as on March 31, 2021. Each Depository
Receipt represents 5 underlying Ordinary Shares of `2/- each.
Security Type ADRs
ISIN US8765685024
Stock Code / Ticker TTM Address NYSE, 20 Broad Street, New York, NY 10005 Overseas Depositary Domestic Custodian Citibank N.A., 388 Greenwich Street, 14th Floor, Citibank N.A., Trent House, 3rd Floor, G-60, New York, NY 10013 Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East), Mumbai 400 051
• Senior Unsecured Notes: The details of outstanding Senior Unsecured Notes aggregating US$ 550 million, are given hereunder:
During the FY 2020-21 4.625% Senior Unsecured Notes, bearing ISIN XS1121907676 and with an issue size of US$262,532,000 were
redeemed upon attaining maturity on April 30, 2020.
• For details pertaining to outstanding warrants and other convertible instruments issued by the Company, kindly refer to point no. (viii) under
the “Disclosures” section of this Corporate Governance Report.
• The following Non-Convertible Debentures are listed on NSE and BSE under Wholesale Debt Market segment*:
E29A NSE & BSE INE155A07284 1000 8.80 May 26, 2023
*Detailed information on the above debentures is included in the ‘Notes to Accounts’.
During the year, the following Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) were redeemed:
• 9.90% E23A Series of NCDs (ISIN: INE155A08043) of `150 crores on May 7, 2020;
• 9.75% E23B Series of NCDs (ISIN: INE155A08050) of `100 crores on May 24, 2020;
• 9.70% E23C Series of NCDs (ISIN: INE155A08068) of `150 crores on June 18, 2020;
• 9.73% E26D (Option II) Series of NCDs (ISIN: INE155A08225) of `400 crores on October 1, 2020; and
• 7.28% E27I (Tranche 1) Series of NCDs (ISIN: INE155A08357) of `500 crores on July 29, 2020.
Resilience and Rebound | 163

--- Page 133 ---
Debenture Trustee: Vistra ITCL (India) Limited, situated at the IL&FS Financial Centre, 7th Floor, Plot C- 22, G Block, Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (E), Mumbai 400051, are the debenture trustees for all the aforementioned NCD’s issued by the Company. They may be contacted at Tel.: +91 22 2659 3333,
Fax: + 91 22 2653 3297, Email id: itclcomplianceofficer@vistra.com.
PLANT LOCATIONS SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Location Range of Products Produced During FY 2020-21, as per the provisions of Regulations 16 and 24 of Pimpri, Pune – 411 018; Medium and Heavy the SEBI Listing Regulations, Ms Hanne Sorensen, ID is on the Boards of Chikhali, Pune – 410 501; Commercial Vehicles Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc, Jaguar Land Rover Limited and Jaguar Chinchwad, Pune – 411 033 (M&HCVs), Intermediate & Land Rover Holdings Limited, which have been identified as material
Light Commercial Vehicles unlisted subsidiary companies.
(UVs) and Cars
important subsidiary companies.
Plot No. 1, Sector 11 and Plot No. 14, SCVs investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/material.pdf, pursuant to Regulation 46(2)
Sector 12, I.I.E., Pantnagar, District of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Ahmedabad – 380 015 subsidiary companies are also discussed at Audit Committee meetings
KIADB Block II, Belur Industrial Area, SCVs, LCVs, ICVs, M&HCVs, of the Company.
The minutes of the subsidiary companies are placed before the Board
ADDRESS FOR CORRESPONDENCE
of Directors of the Company on a quarterly basis and the attention of For Investor Queries the Directors is drawn to significant transactions and arrangements entered into by the subsidiary companies. The performance of its Retail / HNI Investors Institutional Investors
subsidiaries is also reviewed by the Board periodically.
& Investor Relations) The Company is compliant with other requirements under Regulation 24
Bombay House,24, Homi Mody Street, 3rd floor, Nanavati Mahalaya,18, of the SEBI Listing Regulations with regard to its subsidiary companies.
Homi Mody Street,
DISCLOSURES
Mumbai - 400 001, INDIA Mumbai - 400 001, INDIA Phone : 91-22- 6665 7824 Phone : 91-22-6665 8282 i. D etails of transactions with related parties as specified in E-Mail : inv_rel@tatamotors.com E-Mail : ir_tml@tatamotors.com Indian Accounting Standards (IND AS 24) have been reported in For Fixed Deposit, Rights Issue and other Share related queries the Financial Statements. During the year under review, there Kindly refer details mentioned herein above under the head “Registrar was no transaction of a material nature with any of the related
and Transfer Agents” parties, which was in conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Audit Committee takes into consideration the management
CREDIT RATINGS
representation and an independent audit consultant’s report, Credit ratings obtained along with revisions thereto during FY 2020-21, whilst scrutinizing and approving all related party transactions, for all debt instruments in India and abroad: from the perspective of fulfilling the criteria of meeting arms’ length pricing and being transacted in the ordinary course of Credit Rating business. During the period, all transactions with related parties Rating Agency Period Short-Term Long-Term entered into by the Company were in the ordinary course of CARE Ratings As on April 1, 2020 CARE A1+ CARE AA- / business and on an arm’s length basis, were approved by the Audit Limited Negative Committee. The detailed Policy on Related Party Transactions
March 17, 2021 CARE A1+ CARE AA- / is available on the website of the Company at https://investors.
Stable tatamotors.com/pdf/rpt-policy.pdf.
Negative
mentioned below:
Service Negative an internal inquiry into the leakage of information relating to its
June 18, 2020 B1 / Negative financial results for the quarter ended December 2015.
164 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 134 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) of Unpublished Price Sensitive Information to restricted few trading in the Company’s securities. Kindly also refer to details
and that too with encrypted password protected files. These disclosed in point (ii) above.
compliance with corporate governance requirements specified in
November 20, 2020.
Regulations 17 to 27 have been included in the relevant sections
iii. I n accordance with the provisions of the Act and Regulation of this report.
by the Audit Committee which provides a formal mechanism for
Listing Regulations:
concern involves the Senior Management) and make protective Chairman has a separate office which is not maintained by
disclosures to the Management about unethical behaviour, actual the Company.
Company affirms that no director or employee of the Company
are also available on the Company’s website https://www.
has been denied access to the Audit Committee Chairperson.
clarity and the revised policy was approved by the Board at its
regime of unqualified financial statements.
policy.pdf for the detailed Whistle-Blower Policy of Company. reports to the Audit Committee of the Company, to ensure
independence of the Internal Audit function.
Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Insider vii. C ommodity price risk or foreign exchange risk and hedging
Trading) Regulations, 2015, (‘SEBI Insider Trading Regulations’) activities:
against exports and imports. The details of foreign currency and
employees and third parties such as auditors, consultants etc.
who could have access to the UPSI of the Company are governed
and 42( c)(v) to the Standalone Financial Statements.
CFO, is the Compliance Officer, responsible for setting forth
b. Exposure of the Company to various Commodities:
Notes: (1). Mixture of commodities having different Unit of measurements; (2). Above values are estimates; and (3). Exposure given above is
relating to direct materials only.
Convertible Warrants (‘Warrants’), each carrying a right to
spike in commodity prices, impacting the industry as a whole.
per Warrant (‘Warrant Price’), aggregating to `3,470.00 crores
impact of such cost pressures.
Resilience and Rebound | 165

--- Page 135 ---
allotment of Ordinary Shares pursuant to exercise of the options Directors including IDs, Officers, Managers and Employees of attached to Warrant(s) to subscribe to Ordinary Share(s) by June the Company for indemnifying any of them against any liability in 2021.The Company has fully utilised the amount of `3,891.85 respect of any negligence, default, misfeasance, breach of duty crores towards repayment of debt, and other general corporate or breach of trust for which they may be guilty in relation to the
purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. Company.
subscription money of `2,602.51 crores, the Company has fully their network firm. For details please refer to the Note No. 37 in
converted 23,13,33,871 convertible warrants into Ordinary the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Shares, that were issued during the year ended March 31, 2020.
Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, the
2021.
Ministry of Corporate Affairs or any such statutory authority. A number of complaints filed, disposed of and pending, please refer
Certificate to this effect, duly signed by the Practicing Company to the Board’s Report.
Secretary is annexed to this Report.
x. A s per the provisions of the Act and in compliance with Regulation made under this report in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read
25(10) of the Listing Regulations, the Company has taken a together with Schedule V( C) to the SEBI Listing Regulations.
xiv. A ppropriate information has been placed on the Company’s website pursuant to clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 of the
SEBI Listing Regulations.
I nformation on the Company’s website, regarding key policies, codes and charters, adopted by the Company:
business. The Code lays down the ethical standards that Tata colleagues need to
observe in their professional lives.
Mechanism)(1) the Company to report concerns about unethical behavior, actual or suspected policy.pdf
fraud or violation of the Tata Code of Conduct.
approvals by Audit Committee based on the provisions of the Act and Regulation
23 of the SEBI Listing Regulations.
Policy for determining Material This policy is determine material subsidiaries and material non-listed Indian https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/material.pdf
Subsidiaries(1) subsidiaries of the Company and to provide governance framework for them.
Environment interventions for relevant target groups, ensuring diversity and
giving preference to needy and deserving communities inhabiting urban India.
requirements, authority and responsibility of the Audit Committee of the charter.pdf
Company.
be rendered by the Auditors Tata Motors Group and the payment for the said services so as to ensure that the policy.pdf
Auditors function in an independent manner.
Materiality for Disclosure of Event to disclosures of material events affecting the Company and its subsidiaries. This
/ Information policy is in addition to the Company’s corporate policy.
166 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 136 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Name of Policy, Code or Brief Description Web Link Charter Content Archiving Policy The policy pursuant to the Regulation 9 of the SEBI Listing Regulations provides https://investors.tatamotors.com/pdf/content-archiving- guidelines for archiving corporate records and documents as statutorily required policy.pdf
by the Company.
Information outside the Company in order to provide accurate and timely
communication to our shareholders and the financial markets.
outlines the financial parameters and factors that are to be considered whilst distribution-policy.pdf
declaring dividend.
/ non-executive) and also the criteria for determining the remuneration of the
directors, key managerial personnel, senior management and other employees.
(1) Revised in line with the requirements under the SEBI Listing Regulations.
(2) Revised in line with the requirements under the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations.
Resilience and Rebound | 167

--- Page 137 ---
DECLARATION BY THE CEO UNDER REGULATION 26(3) OF THE SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 REGARDING ADHERENCE TO THE CODE OF CONDUCT Pursuant to Regulation 26(3) of the SEBI (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015, the Board Members and the Senior Management
personnel of the Company have affirmed compliance to their respective Codes of Conduct, as applicable to them for the Financial Year ended March 31, 2021.
Guenter Butschek
CEO & MD
Mumbai, May 18, 2021 (DIN: 07427375) CEO/CFO CERTIFICATION IN RESPECT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND CASH FLOW STATEMENT (PURSUANT TO REGULATION 17 (8) OF SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS & DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS), REGULATIONS, 2015 FOR THE
FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2021
We have reviewed the Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement for the year ended March 31, 2021 and we hereby certify and confirm to the best
of our knowledge and belief the following:
a. The Financial Statements and Cash Flow statement do not contain any materially untrue statement or omit any material fact or contain statements
that might be misleading.
b. The Financial Statements and the Cash Flow Statement together present a true and fair view of the affairs of the Company and are in compliance with
existing accounting standards, applicable laws and regulations.
c. There are no transactions entered in to by the Company during the year ended March 31, 2021 which are fraudulent, illegal or violative of Company’s
Code of Conduct.
these internal control systems of the Company pertaining to financial reporting. Deficiencies noted, if any, are discussed with the Auditors and Audit
Committee, as appropriate, and suitable actions are taken to rectify the same.
e. There have been no significant changes in the above-mentioned internal controls over financial reporting during the relevant period.
f. That there have been no significant changes in the accounting policies during the relevant period.
PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
TO THE MEMBERS OF
TATA MOTORS LIMITED
We have examined the compliance of the conditions of Corporate Governance by Tata Motors Limited (‘the Company’) for the year ended on March 31, 2021, as stipulated under Regulations 17 to 27, clauses (b) to (i) of sub-regulation (2) of Regulation 46 and para C, D & E of Schedule V of the Securities and
Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (“SEBI Listing Regulations”).
and implementation thereof, as adopted by the Company for ensuring compliance with the conditions of Corporate Governance. It is neither an audit nor an
expression of opinion on the financial statements of the Company.
spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, we certify that the Company has complied with the conditions of Corporate Governance as stipulated in the SEBI Listing
Regulations for the year ended on March 31, 2021.
We further state that such compliance is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the
Management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Practising Company Secretaries
P. N. PARIKH
Partner
FCS: 327 CP: 1228
Mumbai, May 18, 2021 UDIN: F000327C000338159 168 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 138 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) PRACTISING COMPANY SECRETARIES’ CERTIFICATE ON DIRECTORS NON-DISQUALIFICATION To, The Members
TATA MOTORS LIMITED
Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400001 We have examined the relevant registers, records, forms, returns and disclosures received from the Directors of TATA MOTORS LIMITED having CIN L28920MH1945PLC004520 and having registered office at Bombay House, 24, Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400001 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Company’), produced before me/us by the Company for the purpose of issuing this Certificate, in accordance with Regulation 34(3) read with Schedule V Para-C Sub clause 10(i) of the Securities Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations,
2015.
have been debarred or disqualified from being appointed or continuing as Directors of companies by the Securities and Exchange Board of India,
Ministry of Corporate Affairs, or any such other Statutory Authority.
8. Guenter Karl Butschek 07427375 15/02/2016
* the date of appointment is as per the MCA Portal.
Ensuring the eligibility of for the appointment / continuity of every Director on the Board is the responsibility of the management of the Company.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these based on our verification. This certificate is neither an assurance as to the future viability of the
Company nor of the efficiency or effectiveness with which the management has conducted the affairs of the Company.
Practising Company Secretaries
P. N. PARIKH
Partner
FCS: 327 CP: 1228
Mumbai, May 18, 2021 UDIN: F000327C000338170 Resilience and Rebound | 169

--- Page 139 ---
Standalone Independent Auditors’ Report TO THE MEMBERS OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Report on the Audit of the Standalone Financial Statements Standalone Financial Statements section of our report . We are independent of the Company in accordance with the Code of Ethics issued by the Institute of Opinion Chartered Accountants of India together with the ethical requirements that are We have audited the standalone financial statements of Tata Motors Limited (“the relevant to our audit of the standalone financial statements under the provisions Company”), which comprise the standalone balance sheet as at 31 March 2021, of the Act and the Rules thereunder, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
and the standalone statement of profit and loss (including other comprehensive responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the Code of Ethics.
statements, including a summary of the significant accounting policies and other is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the standalone
explanatory information and includes two joint operations consolidated on a financial statements.
proportionate basis.
financial statements of one joint operation as was audited by the other auditor, is facing as a result of COVID-19 which is impacting supply chains/consumer
the aforesaid standalone financial statements give the information required by demand/financial markets/commodity prices/personnel available for work.
Basis for Opinion
and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
for reversal of previously recognised impairment loss in sufficient appropriate audit evidence
respect of its passenger vehicle cash generating unit (CGU).
Test of Controls:
internal and external sources of information to determine
indicators of impairment reversal.
accordingly , whether the recoverable amount of the CGU
needs to be estimated.
An impairment loss accounted in earlier years is reversed Test of Details:
if the recoverable amount is higher than the carrying value.
The recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of • We assessed internal and external sources of information used by the Company to determine that there are
value in use (VIU) and fair value less costs to sell (FVLCS) . As indicators of impairment reversal.
at 31 March 2021, the Company determined the recoverable
amount of this CGU to be `14,169 crores, being the FVLCS, • In performing the above assessment we have examined:
and reversed the impairment loss. After reversal of the − The growth in total industry volume in current year and growth estimates as per industry forecasts.
impairment loss, the carrying value of net assets for this CGU − The increase in share price of the Company during the current year and the market capitalisation attributable
was `7,750 crores as at 31 March 2021. to the passenger vehicles CGU.
− The improvement in sales multiple as per analyst report as compared to previous year.
This assessment of indicators of impairment reversal is − The growth in the sales volume of the Company in the current year.
considered to be a key audit matter due to the significant − The increase in market share of the Company in the current year as compared to previous year.
judgment required to assess the internal and external − The improvement in the contribution margin earned by the Company.
sources of information.
• We also assessed changes in the estimates used to determine the CGU’ s recoverable amount.
statements. principles used in selection of comparable companies and assessing the CGU’ s enterprise value (i.e. FVLCS) based
on comparable companies ‘ enterprise value to sales multiple.
• We performed a sensitivity analysis over the enterprise value to sales multiple to assess the impact on the
recoverable amount.
170 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 140 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Other Information As part of an audit in accordance with SAs , we exercise professional The Company’s management and Board of Directors are responsible for judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We
the other information. The other information comprises the information also:
In connection with our audit of the standalone financial statements, our from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider omissions, misrepresentations , or the override of internal control.
Management’s and Board of Directors’ Responsibility for the
.
preparation of these standalone financial statements that give a true the standalone financial statements made by the Management and
and fair view of the state of affairs, profit/loss and other comprehensive Board of Directors.
internal financial controls that were operating effectively for ensuring conditions may cause the Company (including its joint operations) to
accuracy and completeness of the accounting records , relevant to the cease to continue as a going concern.
of the Company, as aforesaid . underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
presentation.
operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. of the Company and such joint operation included in the standalone
annual financial results of which we are the independent auditors.
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the are further described in section titled ‘ Other Matter’ in this audit
standalone financial statements as a whole are free from material report.
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. for our audit opinion on the standalone financial statements .
Resilience and Rebound | 171

--- Page 141 ---
Standalone the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, c) T he standalone balance sheet, the standalone including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify statement of profit and loss (including other during our audit. comprehensive income), the standalone statement of changes in equity and the standalone statement of cash We also provide those charged with governance with a statement flows dealt with by this Report are in agreement with that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
the relevant books of account.
and where applicable, related safeguards. statements comply with the Ind AS specified under
section 133 of the Act.
that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the on 31 March 2021 from being appointed as a director in
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to terms of Section 164(2) of the Act.
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
statements reflect total assets (before consolidation adjustments) such controls, refer to our separate Report in “Annexure
of `8,039.78 crores as at 31 March 2021, total revenue (before B”.
and our opinion on the standalone financial statements, in so far as it
operation, as noted in the “Other Matter” paragraph:
Our opinion on the standalone financial statements, and our report on
statements;
1. A s required by the Companies (Auditors’ Report) Order, 2016 (“the
(iii) to the standalone financial statements;
Company (excluding its joint operations), to the extent applicable. Company or its joint operations incorporated in India
during the year ended 31 March 2021;
a) W e have sought and obtained all the information and
year ended 31 March 2021.
belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. ( C) W ith respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors ‘
Report under section 197(16):
172 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 142 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Managing Director for the period 15 February 2021 to 30 Companies Act, 2013. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs has June 2021 and the remuneration for this period are subject to not prescribed other details under Section 197(16) which are
approval of the shareholders, which the Company proposes required to be commented upon by us.
Further, with respect to the joint operations included in the
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
calculated on a proportionate basis, exceeds the prescribed
section 197(16) are not applicable for such joint operations.
Chartered Accountants
and such amounts will also exceed the prescribed limits.
Resilience and Rebound | 173

--- Page 143 ---
Standalone Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report – 31 March 2021 With reference to the Annexure referred to in paragraph 1 in Report on (vi) T he maintenance of cost records has been specified by the Central Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements of the Independent Auditor’s Government under Section 148(1) of the Companies Act, 2013 in Report to the members of the Company on the Standalone financial respect of the products manufactured by the Company. We have statements for the year ended 31 March 2021, we report that: broadly reviewed the books of account maintained by the Company pursuant to the rules prescribed by the Central Government for (i) (a) The Company has maintained proper records showing full maintenance of cost records under section 148(1) of the Companies particulars, including quantitative details and situation of Act, 2013 in respect of manufacture of products and are of the
fixed assets.
of its fixed assets by which its fixed assets are verified in a examination of the cost records with a view to determine whether
phased manner over a period of three years. In our opinion, they are accurate or complete.
account in respect of undisputed statutory dues including
verification of fixed assets.
of the application for surrender filed, the contributions to
material and have been properly dealt with in the books of account.
firms or other parties covered in the Register maintained under the Company does not have dues on account of Sales Tax,
Section 189 of the Companies Act, 2013, in respect of which: Service Tax, Value Added Tax and Duty of Excise.
than six months from the date they became payable . We
stipulations or as renegotiated.
contributions to the Pension scheme from 1 October 2019
investments and providing guarantees and securities, as applicable.
to 31 March 2021, have been deposited by the Company in a
(v) A ccording to the information and explanations given to us, the restricted fixed deposit.
the provisions of section 73 to 76 of the Act and the rules framed
thereunder.
174 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 144 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) (b) According to the information and explanations given to us, there are no dues of Income tax, Sales tax, Service tax, Value added tax, Goods and services tax, Duty of customs and Duty of excise which have not been deposited by the Company with appropriate authorities on
account of any disputes except for the following:
1992-93, 2001-02 to 2005-06,
2007-08 to 2016-17.
level
* includes refunds adjusted by the authorities.
proposes to obtain in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting,
purpose for which they were raised.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Resilience and Rebound | 175

--- Page 145 ---
Standalone Section 197 read with Schedule V to the Companies Act, 2013, by Act. Out of the total money raised aggregating `2,602.51 crores, `1.89 crores. This amount excludes Performance and Long Term `Nil has been utilized till 31 March 2021 (also refer note [2l(h)] Incentives, which will be accrued post determination and approval to the standalone financial statements). Pending utilization , the by the Board of Directors of the Company, and such amounts will funds aggregating to `2,602.51 crores were used for purposes also exceed the prescribed limits. Further, the Company is also other than for which they were raised by temporarily investing in
in the process of obtaining Central Government approval since mutual funds and fixed deposits .
independent directors aggregating `1.70 crores which is subject
with directors or persons connected with them during the year.
obtain in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, in accordance
Company.
with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
given to us, the Company is not required to register under section
given to us, the Company is not a Nidhi Company as per the Act.
45-IA of the Reserve Bank oflndia Act, 1934.
Accordingly, paragraph 3(xii) of the Order is not applicable to the
Company.
the applicable accounting standards have been disclosed in the
standalone financial statements.
176 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 146 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Annexure B to the Independent Auditors’ Report 31 March 2021 Report on the internal financial controls with reference to the aforesaid We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained and the audit evidence standalone financial statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of obtained by the other auditor of a joint operation in terms of their report Section 143 of the Companies Act, 2013 referred in the Other Matter paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal financial controls with (Referred to in paragraph 2(A)(f) under ‘Report on Other Legal and Regulatory
reference to financial statements.
principles. A company’s internal financial controls with reference to financial
operations which are companies incorporated in India.
financial controls with reference to financial statements and such internal
assets of the company;
responsible for establishing and maintaining internal financial controls company’s assets that could have a material effect on the standalone
based on the internal financial controls with reference to financial financial statements .
Inherent Limitations of Internal Financial controls with
the essential components of internal control stated in the Guidance Note.
financial controls with reference to standalone financial statements may
(hereinafter referred to as “the Act”).
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
Auditors’ Responsibility compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Other Matter
financial controls with reference to financial statements based on our audit.
financial statements. Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that
corresponding report of the other auditor.
a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the standalone financial
statements , whether due to fraud or error.
Resilience and Rebound | 177

--- Page 147 ---
Standalone Balance Sheet (` in crores) As at As at Notes March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
I. ASSETS
(1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS
(a) Property, plant and equipment 3 (a) 19,153.47 18,870.67 (b) Capital work-in-progress 3 (b) 1,400.82 1,755.51 ( c) Right of use assets 4 768.59 669.58 (d) Goodwill 99.09 99.09 (e) Other intangible assets 5 (a) 6,401.95 5,568.64 (f) Intangible assets under development 5 (b) 1,605.64 2,739.29 (g) Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 7 15,147.26 15,182.29 (h) Financial assets (i) Investments 8 967.65 548.57 (ii) Loans and advances 10 126.05 138.46 (iii) Other financial assets 12 1,631.83 1,512.96 (i) Non-current tax assets (net) 715.31 727.97 (j) Other non-current assets 14 1,187.41 1,208.08 49,205.07 49,021.11
(2) CURRENT ASSETS
(a) Inventories 16 4,551.71 3,831.92 (b) Financial assets (i) Investments 9 1,578.26 885.31 (ii) Trade receivables 17 2,087.51 1,978.06 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 19 2,365.54 2,145.30 (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 20 1,953.40 1,386.89 (v) Loans and advances 11 185.42 232.14 (vi) Other financial assets 13 1,745.06 1,546.56 ( c) Assets classified as held for sale 49 (iv) 220.80 191.07 (d) Other current assets 15 1,166.89 1,371.51 15,854.59 13,568.76
TOTAL ASSETS 65,059.66 62,589.87
II. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
(a) Equity share capital 21 765.81 719.54 (b) Other equity 18,290.16 17,668.11 19,055.97 18,387.65
LIABILITIES
(1) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
(a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 23 16,326.77 14,776.51 (ii) Lease liabilities 593.74 522.24 (iii) Other financial liabilities 25 659.64 854.74 (b) Provisions 27 1,371.94 1,769.74 ( c) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 266.50 198.59 (d) Other non-current liabilities 30 533.55 269.58 19,752.14 18,391.40
(2) CURRENT LIABILITIES
(a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 24 2,542.50 6,121.36 (ii) Lease liabilities 96.47 83.30 (iii) Trade payables (a) Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 167.23 101.56 (b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises 7,947.78 8,000.69 (iv) Acceptances 7,873.12 2,741.69 (v) Other financial liabilities 26 4,255.57 5,976.35 (b) Provisions 28 1,043.54 1,406.75 ( c) Current tax liabilities (net) 37.84 31.49 (d) Other current liabilities 31 2,287.50 1,347.63 26,251.55 25,810.82
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 65,059.66 62,589.87
See accompanying notes to financial statements In terms of our report attached For and on behalf of the Board For B S R & Co. LLP Chartered Accountants N CHANDRASEKARAN [DIN: 00121863] GUENTER BUTSCHEK [DIN: 07427375] Firm’s Registration No: 101248W/W-100022 Chairman CEO and Managing Director Place- Mumbai Place- Austria SHIRAZ VASTANI VEDIKA BHANDARKAR [DIN: 00033808] P B BALAJI Partner Director Group Chief Financial Officer Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAW6929
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 178 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 148 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Statement of Profit and Loss (` in crores) Year ended Year ended Notes March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Revenue from operations Revenue 46,559.39 43,485.76 Other operating revenue 472.08 442.41 I. Total revenue from operations 32 47,031.47 43,928.17 II. Other Income 33 842.96 1,383.05 III. Total Income (I+II) 47,874.43 45,311.22 IV. Expenses (a) Cost of materials consumed 30,010.61 26,171.85 (b) Purchases of products for sale 5,490.67 5,679.98 ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale (69.02) 722.68 (d) Employee benefits expense 34 4,212.99 4,384.31 (e) Finance costs 35 2,358.54 1,973.00 (f) Foreign exchange loss (net) 1.67 239.00 (g) Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,681.61 3,375.29 (h) Product development/Engineering expenses 907.64 830.24 (i) Other expenses 36 5,801.90 7,720.75 (j) Amount transferred to capital and other accounts 37 (817.53) (1,169.46) Total Expenses (IV) 51,579.08 49,927.64 V. Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV) (3,704.65) (4,616.42) VI. Exceptional items (a) Employee separation cost 215.97 2.69 (b) Write off/provision (reversal) for tangible/intangible assets (including under development) 38 114.00 (73.03) ( c) Provision/(reversal) for loan given to/investment and cost of closure in subsidiary 123.36 385.62 companies/joint venture (net) (d) Impairment losses/(reversal) in passenger vehicle business 6 (a) (1,182.41) 1,418.64 (e) Provision/(reversal) for Onerous Contracts and related supplier claims 6 (b) (663.00) 777.00 VII. Profit/(loss) before tax (V-VI) (2,312.57) (7,127.34) VIII. Tax expense (net) 29 (a) Current tax 82.31 33.05 (b) Deferred tax 0.56 129.24 Total tax expense 82.87 162.29 IX. Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII) (2,395.44) (7,289.63)
X. Other comprehensive income/(loss):
(A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss:
XII. Earnings/(loss) per share (EPS) 40
(A) Ordinary shares (face value of `2 each) :
(ii) Diluted ` (6.59) (21.06)
(B) ‘A’ Ordinary shares (face value of `2 each) :
Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAW6929
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 Resilience and Rebound | 179

--- Page 149 ---
Standalone Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Cash flows from operating activities:
Profit/(loss) for the year (2,395.44) (7,289.63)
Adjustments for:
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 6,680.32 (1,454.59)
Cash flows from investing activities:
180 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 150 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Deposits/restricted deposits with financial institution (1,000.00) (1,000.00) Realisation of deposits with financial institution 750.00 750.00 Deposits/restricted deposits with banks (3,342.52) (3,419.37) Realisation of deposits/restricted deposits with banks 2,849.64 2,851.53 Interest received 153.55 471.35 Dividend received 20.45 241.22 Net cash used in investing activities (2,991.32) (4,718.86) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issue of shares/conversion of warrants (net of issue expenses) 2,602.51 3,888.79 Proceeds from long-term borrowings (net of issue expenses) 4,667.65 4,781.55 Repayment of long-term borrowings (4,562.91) (1,124.93) Proceeds from Option settlement of long term borrowings 35.01 190.90 Repayment of matured fixed deposits (0.48) (6.75) Proceeds from short-term borrowings 4,068.21 9,178.61 Repayment of short-term borrowings (5,874.81) (8,003.51) Net change in other short-term borrowings (with maturity up to three months) (1,785.86) 1,311.36 Repayment of lease liabilities (including interest) (192.32) (193.63) Dividend paid (1.56) (3.52) Interest paid [including discounting charges paid, `438.43 crores (March 31, 2020 `371.57 crores)] (2,427.35) (2,269.66) Net cash from/(used in) financing activities (3,471.91) 7,749.21 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 217.09 1,575.76 Cash and cash equivalents as at April 1, (opening balance) 2,145.30 487.40 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 3.15 82.14 Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, (closing balance) 2,365.54 2,145.30
Non-cash transactions:
Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAW6929
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 Resilience and Rebound | 181

--- Page 151 ---
Standalone 182 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 ytiuqE ni segnahC fo tnemetatS 1202 ,13
HCRAM
DEDNE RAEY EHT ROF
LATIPAC
ERAHS YTIUQE .A
)serorc ni `( sralucitraP 45.917 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 72.64 serahs fo eussi morf sdeecorP 18.567 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB )22
ETON
REFER(
YTIUQE REHTO .B
)serorc ni `( rehto latoT ytiuqe fo stnenopmoc rehtO deniateR latipaC erutnebeD latipaC yenoM erahS seitiruceS sralucitraP ytiuqe fo tsoC gnigdeH ytiuqE sgninrae no( evreser noitpmeder noitpmeder deviecer desab muimerp gnigdeh evreser stnemurtsni elas(/)regrem evreser evreser tsniaga stnemyap evreser
ICO
hguorht )ssenisub fo erahS evreser )ten( stnarraW 11.866,71 )97.24( )55.861( )00.65( )38.128,5( )73.953( 48.830,1 82.2 05.768 41.31 98.491,22 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB )44.593,2( - - - )44.593,2( - - - - - - raey eht rof ssoL 99.244 99.14 83.76 60.843 )44.41( - - - - - - raey eht rof )ssol(/emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO )54.259,1( 99.14 83.76 60.843 )88.904,2( - - - - - - raey eht rof ssol evisneherpmoc latoT 40.9 - - - - - - - - 40.9 - stnemyap desab-erahS 42.655,2 - - - - - - - )05.768( - 47.324,3 /tnemtolla laitnereferp ot tnausrup serahs fo eussI stnarraw erahs fo noisrevnoc - - - )63.4( 63.4 - - - - - - eulav riaf ta dleh stnemtsevni no niag desilaeR emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO hguorht 22.9 - - - - 22.9 - - - - - refer[ ynapmoc yraidisbus a ot ssenisub fo elaS ])iv( 94 eton - - - - 04.431 - )04.431( - - - - evreser noitpmeder erutnebed morf refsnarT 61.092,81 )08.0( )71.101( 07.782 )59.290,8( )51.053( 44.409 82.2 - 81.22 36.816,52 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB stnemetats laicnanif ot seton gniynapmocca eeS stnemetats laicnanif ot seton gniynapmocca eeS draoB eht fo flaheb no dna roF dehcatta troper ruo fo smret nI PLL .oC & R S B roF ]57372470
:NID[
KEHCSTUB
RETNEUG
]36812100
:NID[
NARAKESARDNAHC
N
stnatnuoccA deretrahC rotceriD gniganaM dna
OEC
namriahC
220001-W/W842101
:oN noitartsigeR s’mriF airtsuA -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP
IJALAB
B
P
]80833000
:NID[
RAKRADNAHB
AKIDEV
INATSAV ZARIHS
reciffO laicnaniF feihC puorG rotceriD rentraP iabmuM -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP 433301 .oN pihsrebmeM 9296WAAAAA43330112 :NIDU ]7053
:SCF[
ANHTES
K
H
enuP -ecalP yraterceS ynapmoC iabmuM -ecalP 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD

--- Page 152 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Resilience and Rebound | 183 ytiuqE ni segnahC fo tnemetatS 0202 ,13
HCRAM
DEDNE
RAEY EHT ROF
LATIPAC
ERAHS
YTIUQE .A
)serorc ni `( sralucitraP 22.976 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 23.04 serahs fo eussi morf sdeecorP 45.917 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB )22
ETON
REFER(
YTIUQE
REHTO .B
)serorc ni `( rehto latoT ytiuqe fo stnenopmoc rehtO deniateR latipaC erutnebeD latipaC yenoM erahS seitiruceS sralucitraP ytiuqe fo tsoC gnigdeH ytiuqE sgninrae no( evreser noitpmeder noitpmeder deviecer desab muimerp gnigdeh evreser stnemurtsni /)regrem evreser evreser tsniaga stnemyap evreser
ICO
hguorht fo elas( erahS evreser )ssenisub stnarraW )ten( 03.384,12 54.6 )04.62( 62.26 77.984,1 )73.953( 49.580,1 82.2 - 44.8 39.312,91 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB )36.982,7( - - - )36.982,7( - - - - - raey eht rof tiforP )27.873( )42.94( )51.241( )62.811( )70.96( - - - - - raey eht rof )ssol(/emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO )53.866,7( )42.94( )51.241( )62.811( )07.853,7( - - - - - raey eht rof )ssol(/emocni evisneherpmoc latoT 07.4 - - - - - - - - 07.4 - stnemyap desab-erahS 05.768 - - - - - - - 05.768 - - stnarraw erahS fo eussI 69.089,2 - - - - - - - - - 69.089,2 tnemtolla laitnereferp ot tnausrup serahs fo eussI sdeecorp dna )serorc 80.3` fo sesnepxe eussi fo ten( ecnayeba ni dleh serahs fo eussi morf - - - - 01.74 - )01.74( - - - - evreser noitpmeder erutnebed morf refsnarT 11.866,71 )97.24( )55.861( )00.65( )38.128,5( )73.953( 48.830,1 82.2 05.768 41.31 98.491,22 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB stnemetats laicnanif ot seton gniynapmocca eeS stnemetats laicnanif ot seton gniynapmocca eeS draoB eht fo flaheb no dna roF dehcatta troper ruo fo smret nI
PLL
.oC & R S B roF ]57372470
:NID[
KEHCSTUB
RETNEUG
]36812100
:NID[
NARAKESARDNAHC
N
stnatnuoccA deretrahC rotceriD gniganaM dna
OEC
namriahC
220001-W/W842101
:oN noitartsigeR s’mriF airtsuA -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP
IJALAB
B
P
]80833000
:NID[
RAKRADNAHB
AKIDEV
INATSAV ZARIHS
reciffO laicnaniF feihC puorG rotceriD rentraP iabmuM -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP 433301 .oN pihsrebmeM
9296WAAAAA43330112
:NIDU
]7053
:SCF[
ANHTES
K
H
enuP -ecalP yraterceS ynapmoC iabmuM -ecalP 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD

--- Page 153 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BACKGROUND AND OPERATIONS the Going Concern Assessment Period and considers the T ata Motors Limited referred to as (“the Company” or “Tata estimated on-going impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic Motors”), designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of and a cautious view of the impact of near-term supply chain
automotive vehicles. The Company also manufactures engines challenges related to global semi-conductor shortages.
for industrial and marine applications. It also accounts for other end-market and operational
factors throughout the Going Concern Assessment Period.
significantly influence the Company’s operations. industry. Management do not consider more extreme
T hese standalone financial statements were approved by the scenarios than the ones assessed to be plausible.
cost basis except for certain financial instruments which are subsidiary through a scheme of arrangement, whichever is
measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period as earlier.
explained in the accounting policies below.
Company being a joint operator has recognised its share of liabilities as they become due, without breaching any
the assets, liabilities, income and expenses of these joint relevant covenants and the need for any mitigating actions.
Although not required by Ind ASs, the Company has ‘going concern’ in the foreseeable future and for a period of
provided in note 49 additional information of Tata Motors at least September 30, 2022.
position as at March 31, 2021 and forecasts of the Company of revenues and expenses for the years presented. Actual
for a period of eighteen months from the date of these results may differ from these estimates.
In developing these forecasts, the Company has modelled are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised
a base case, which has been further sensitised using severe and in future periods affected.
184 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 154 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In particular, information about significant areas of The Company recognises revenues on the sale of estimation uncertainty and critical judgments in applying products, net of discounts, sales incentives, customer accounting policies that have the most significant effect bonuses and rebates granted, when products are on the amounts recognised in the financial statements are delivered to dealers or when delivered to a carrier for included in the following notes: export sales, which is when control including risks and
rewards and title of ownership pass to the customer.
iv) N ote 47- Assets and obligations relating to employee
associated uncertainty is subsequently resolved.
health pandemic from COVID-19. competitor pricing, ageing of retailer stock and local
market conditions.
Governments in India and across the world have taken customers are recognised net of their costs within
significant measures to curb the spread of the virus revenues in the income statement.
in activities. Consequently, Company’s manufacturing
resulting receivable is reasonably assured.
demand. More recently, the next wave of the pandemic
the relevant period of service or extended warranty.
assets, intangible assets under development and the net contract liability until the service obligation has been
realisable values of other assets. However, given the effect met.
transferred to income when customers redeem their
consequential impact on its financial statements.
reward points.
The Company generates revenue principally from-
obligations that are satisfied over a period of time.
Resilience and Rebound | 185

--- Page 155 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
period of time is recorded as a contract liability and vary depending on when warranty claim will arise, being recorded as revenue when service is rendered to typically up to six years. The Company also has back- to- customers. back contractual arrangement with its suppliers in the event
that a vehicle fault is proven to be a supplier’s fault.
non-recurring incentives from Government (referred as
reimbursements are recognised as separate asset.
“incentives”).
expected benefits to be derived by the Company from a
the relevant conditions and the grant will be received.
already been incurred. Government grants related to assets and the Company sells the finished goods using the
are deferred and amortised over the useful life of the asset. components at a loss.
grants that are awarded as incentives with no ongoing
which is the functional currency of Tata Motors Limited.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the
income in the period in which the grant is received.
employee costs, stores and other manufacturing supplies, currency borrowings which are capitalized when they are
and other expenses incurred for construction and product regarded as an adjustment to interest costs.
development undertaken by the Company.
Company has a present legal or constructive obligation
income of each taxable entity.
goodwill and recall complaints. The timing of outflows will
part of the asset to be recovered.
186 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 156 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured based on Depreciation is provided on the Straight Line Method (SLM) the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when over the estimated useful lives of the assets considering the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax the nature, estimated usage, operating conditions, past rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively history of replacement, anticipated technological changes,
enacted by the balance sheet date. Current and deferred manufacturers’ warranties and maintenance support.
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied categories of property, plant and equipments, which are
by the same taxation authority and the Company intends different from those prescribed in Schedule II of the Act.
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Estimated useful lives of assets are as follows:
deposits and highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of up to three months that are readily convertible The useful lives is reviewed at least at each year end.
into cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of Changes in expected useful lives are treated as change in
changes in value. accounting estimates.
Basic earnings per share has been computed by dividing until construction and installation are complete and the
net income by the weighted average number of shares asset is ready for its intended use.
using the weighted average number of shares and dilutive
loss when it is derecognized.
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable
amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any.
Cost, including fixed and variable production overheads, estimated useful lives of the intangible assets as per details
are allocated to work-in-progress and finished goods below:
and accumulated impairment, if any. expected useful lives are treated as changes in accounting
estimates.
Freehold land is measured at cost and is not depreciated.
and duties, labour cost and direct overheads for self-
Loss in the year in which they are incurred.
and it is probable that asset will generate future economic
specific borrowings have been incurred for the asset.
benefits.
Resilience and Rebound | 187

--- Page 157 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The cost of an internally generated intangible asset is the • The Company has the right to operate the asset; or sum of directly attributable expenditure incurred from the • The Company designed the asset in a way that date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition predetermines how and for what purposes it will be
criteria to the completion of its development.
used.
rate of all other borrowings if no specific borrowings have
relative stand-alone prices.
been incurred for the asset.
liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use
related product, being a period of 24 months to 120 months.
Cash generating units to which goodwill is allocated are
the expected useful life of the leased asset.
recognised is not reversed in subsequent period. interest method. It is re measured when there is a change in
future lease payments.
this may be specified explicitly or implicitly, and should
incurred by the Company and estimated dilapidation costs.
• The Company has the right to substantially all of the
expenses over the tenor of such leases.
At each balance sheet date, the Company assesses
• The Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Company
right to direct the use of the asset if either:
188 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 158 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating of providing the pension benefits would not exceed
unit to which the asset belongs. 15% of salary.
to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
superannuation plan.
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current The Company maintains a separate irrevocable trust
market assessments of the time value of money and the for employees covered and entitled to benefits.
unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the
further obligation beyond this contribution.
the employee been in service, to an eligible employee
recognized in prior years.
employees at retirement, death while in employment
based on an actuarial valuation.
to the provident fund and pension fund set up as
a defined benefit plan and a defined contribution plan.
employees. The interest rate payable to the members
a member of either plan.
from 0.75% to 2% of the annual basic salary for each of the shortfall of interest earnings of the Fund is
year of service. Tata Motors Limited account for determined on the basis of an actuarial valuation.
Given the investment pattern prescribed by the
plan based on an actuarial valuation.
by this plan are prospectively entitled to benefits the total liability of principal and interest guarantee
computed on a basis that ensures that the annual cost has been actuarially valued as a defined benefit.
Resilience and Rebound | 189

--- Page 159 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(v) Post-retirement medicare scheme s. Share based payments Under this unfunded scheme, employees of Tata The Company recognises compensation expense relating Motors Limited receive medical benefits subject to to share based payments in accordance with Ind AS 102 certain limits on amounts of benefits, periods after Share-based Payment. Stock options granted by the retirement and types of benefits, depending on Company to its employees are accounted as equity settled their grade and location at the time of retirement. options. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of options Employees separated from the Company as part of an granted that is determined on the date of grant, is charged Early Separation Scheme, on medical grounds or due to statement of Profit and Loss on a straight line basis over to permanent disablement are also covered under the the vesting period of options which is the requisite service
scheme. Tata Motors Limited account for the liability period, with a corresponding increase in equity.
t. Dividends
actuarial valuation.
Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and
the provisions of Schedule II to the Companies Act.
Profit and Loss in the period in which they arise. u. Segments
The Company primarily operates in the automotive business.
The measurement date of retirement plans is March
segments i.e. commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles.
31.
Investments in subsidiaries, Joint Ventures and Associates
are measured using projected unit credit method.
are measured at cost as per Ind AS 27 – Separate Financial
The present value of the post-employment benefit Statements.
determined on an actuarial basis using a number of
i) Recognition:
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability
discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions.
or equity instrument of another entity.
obligations. Key assumptions and sensitivities for post sheet when the Company becomes a party to the
employment benefit obligations are disclosed in note contractual provisions of the instrument.
190 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 160 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Initial measurement outstanding and that are held within a business model Initially, a financial instrument is recognised at its whose objective is to hold such assets in order to fair value. Transaction costs directly attributable to collect such contractual cash flows as well as to sell
the acquisition or issue of financial instruments are the financial asset, are classified in this category.
fair value through profit or loss are expensed in profit losses or foreign exchange gains or losses, which are
or loss. recognised in profit or loss.
Subsequently, financial instruments are measured Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss:
business model in which the instruments are held as liabilities at fair value through profit and loss are
well as the characteristics of their contractual cash immediately recognised in profit and loss.
flows. The business model is based on management’s
intentions and past pattern of transactions. Financial Classification and measurement – financial liabilities:
flows are solely payment of principal and interest. The specific criteria to be recognised at fair value through
Company reclassifies financial assets when and only profit or loss.
F inancial assets are classified into three to initial recognition, these are measured at fair value
categories with gains or losses being recognised in profit or loss.
and that are held within a business model whose are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct
objective is to hold such assets in order to collect such issue costs.
contractual cash flows are classified in this category.
designated as hedging instruments, for which hedge
Equity investments at fair value through other accounting is applied, are classified into this category.
comprehensive income (Equity instruments): These These are measured at fair value with changes in fair
include financial assets that are equity instruments value recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss.
income taxes. determined or the amount initially recognised less,
the cumulative amount of income recognised.
recognised in the statement of Profit and Loss when Other financial liabilities: These are measured at
the right to receive payment has been established. amortised cost using the effective interest method.
ii) Determination of fair value:
comprehensive income (Debt instruments): Financial is directly observable or estimated using another
assets having contractual terms that give rise valuation technique.
Resilience and Rebound | 191

--- Page 161 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The fair value of a financial instrument on initial forward looking and are measured in a way that is recognition is normally the transaction price (fair unbiased and represents a probability-weighted value of the consideration given or received). amount, takes into account the time value of money (values are discounted using the applicable effective In estimating the fair value of an asset or liability, the interest rate) and uses reasonable and supportable Company takes into account the characteristics of
information.
the asset or liability if market participants would take
those characteristics into account when pricing the Hedge accounting:
methods
are paid according to benchmark market interest rates.
Derivative contracts are stated at fair value on the
liabilities:
balance sheet at each reporting date.
through other comprehensive income. In this case, recognised immediately in the statement of profit and
any cumulative gain or loss in equity is transferred loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to the
when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.
The Company reviews the facts and circumstances
forecasted transactions occurs.
around each asset before making a determination.
in the other comprehensive income along with the
cancelled or has expired.
changes in fair value determined to be effective
iii) Impairment of financial assets: portion of the hedge.
comprehensive income. Expected credit losses are
in other comprehensive income.
192 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 162 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging of the Companies Act, 2013. The amendments revise instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, Division I, II and III of Schedule III and are applicable or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Amounts from April 1, 2021. Some of the key amendments accumulated in equity are reclassified to the statement relating to Division II which relate to companies whose of profit and loss in the periods in which the forecast financial statements are required to comply with transactions affect profit or loss or as an adjustment Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015
to a non-financial item (e.g. inventory) when that item are:
as the hedged item affects profit or loss (for example
distinguished as current or non-current.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to
reporting period.
equity is immediately transferred to the statement of c) S pecified format for disclosure of shareholding
Profit and Loss for the year. of promoters.
made following changes applicable from the financial work-in-progress and intangible asset under
year beginning April 1, 2020 – development.
permits a simplified assessment of whether and financial institutions, then disclosure of
an acquired set of activities and assets is not a details of where it has been used.
business.
by the Interest Rate Benchmark Reforms (IBOR related parties, details of benami property held
reforms). etc.
3. A mended Ind AS 116 to provide limited relief to g) R ealignment of presentation of following
lessees in respect of rent concessions arising financial statement captions:
due to Covid-19 pandemic.
• Security deposits to be presented
4. R efined the definition of the term ‘material’ under other financial assets (earlier:
in the nature of loans were granted to promoters,
or misstating that information.
O n March 24, 2021, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs defined under 2013 Act), either severally or
(“MCA”) through a notification, amended Schedule III jointly with any other person that are:
Resilience and Rebound | 193

--- Page 163 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
• Repayable on demand or • Whether quarterly returns/ statements of current assets filed with banks/ FI are • Without specifying any terms/ period of in agreement with the books repayment • Summary of reconciliation and reasons j) D isclosure of prescribed ratios e.g. current of material discrepancies (if any) ratio, debt-equity ratio (Explain items included in numerator and denominator and any change l) A dditional disclosures relating to Corporate in the ratio >25% as compared to the preceding Social Responsibility (CSR), undisclosed income year) and crypto or virtual currency specified under the head ‘additional information’ in the notes k) D isclosure of the following where borrowings
forming part of financial statements.
same for the financial statements for the year
ended March 31, 2022.
194 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 164 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Resilience and Rebound | 195
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
FO
TRAP
GNIMROF
SETON
TNEMPIUQE
DNA
TNALP
,YTREPORP
)a( 3 )serorc ni `( esael no nekaT esael no neviG stessa denwO sretupmoC ,tnalP ,tnalP sretupmoC ,tnalP latoT erutinruF erutinruF
TI
rehto & dna yrenihcamsgnidliuB sgnidliuB dna yrenihcam
TI
rehto & selciheV dna yrenihcam sgnidliuB dnaL serutxif dna serutxif dna stessa stnempiuqe stnempiuqe stessa stnempiuqe 96.919,93 - - - - 20.4 40.83 31.446 17.203 52.652 23.479,92 41.138,3 80.968,4 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa tsoC 03.368,1 - - - - - - 60.32 02.7 02.5 63.807,1 84.911 - snoitiddA )34.3( - - - - - - )52.1( )01.1( )24.0( )64.0( )02.0( - refer[ ynapmoc yraidisbus a ot ssenisub fo elaS ])iv( 94 eton )44.275( - - - - - )83.0( )71.341( )76.44( )71.53( )47.323( )03.52( - stnemtsujda/slasopsiD 31.702,14 - - - - 20.4 66.73 77.225 41.462 68.522 84.853,13 21.529,3 80.968,4 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa tsoC )20.940,12( - - - - )39.0( )88.42( )59.374( )50.161( )09.961( )74.628,81( )48.193,1( - noitaicerped detalumuccA 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa )41.698,1( - - - - )01.0( )16.1( )85.64( )81.15( )25.21( )06.566,1( )55.811( - raey eht rof noitaicerpeD 57.035 - - - - - - 67.2 56.1 36.0 38.864 88.65 - ssol tnemriapmI fo lasreveR 01.2 - - - - - - 39.0 65.0 03.0 52.0 60.0 - refer[ ynapmoc yraidisbus a ot ssenisub fo elaS ])iv( 94 eton 56.853 - - - - - 63.0 07.731 43.33 39.72 97.941 35.9 - stnemtsujda/lasopsiD )56.350,22( - - - - )30.1( )31.62( )41.973( )86.671( )65.351( )02.378,91( )29.344,1( - noitaicerped detalumuccA 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa 74.351,91 - - - - 99.2 35.11 36.341 64.78 03.27 82.584,11 02.184,2 80.968,4 tnuoma gniyrrac teN 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa 05.521,73 13.4 61.681 59.93 82.13 20.4 40.83 20.665 98.172 25.452 58.435,72 35.916,3 39.475,4 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa tsoC )07.162( )13.4( )61.681( )59.93( )82.13( - - - - - - - - 611 SA dnI fo noitacilppa laitini no tnemtsujdA 08.368,63 - - - - 20.4 40.83 20.665 98.172 25.452 58.435,72 35.916,3 39.475,4 ecnalab gninepo detsujdA 39.715,3 - - - - - - 32.08 51.56 08.4 23.998,2 82.471 51.492 snoitiddA )34.31( - - - - - - )65.1( )80.0( )00.1( )36.01( )61.0( - ynapmoc yraidisbus a ot ssenisub fo elaS )16.844( - - - - - - )65.0( )52.43( )70.2( )22.944( 94.73 - stnemtsujda/slasopsiD 96.919,93 - - - - 20.4 40.83 31.446 17.203 52.652 23.479,92 41.138,3 80.968,4 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa tsoC )98.808,81( )73.2( )75.081( )96.53( )92.7( )48.0( )43.32( )49.824( )43.331( )76.751( )15.816,61( )33.022,1( - 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa noitaicerped detalumuccA 29.522 73.2 75.081 96.53 92.7 - - - - - - - - 611 SA dnI fo noitacilppa laitini no tnemtsujdA )79.285,81( - - - - )48.0( )43.32( )49.824( )43.331( )76.751( )15.816,61( )33.022,1( - ecnalab gninepo detsujdA )96.099,1( - - - - )90.0( )45.1( )58.24( )01.35( )33.31( )88.508,1( )09.37( - raey eht rof noitaicerpeD 80.8 - - - - - - 69.0 60.0 07.0 02.6 61.0 - ynapmoc yraidisbus a ot ssenisub fo elaS 76.183 - - - - - - 65.0 21.72 62.1 22.093 )94.73( - stnemtsujda/lasopsiD )11.568( - - - - - - )86.3( )97.1( )68.0( )05.897( )82.06( - stessa fo tnemriapmi/ffo nettirw stessA )20.940,12( - - - - )39.0( )88.42( )59.374( )50.161( )09.961( )74.628,81( )48.193,1( - noitaicerped detalumuccA 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa 76.078,81 - - - - 90.3 61.31 81.071 66.141 53.68 58.741,11 03.934,2 80.968,4 tnuoma gniyrrac teN 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa :etoN .seiteicoS gnisuoH evitarepo-oC fo serahs ni stnemtsevni fo eulav gnieb )00.136,8` 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa( 00.136,8` edulcni sgnidliuB

--- Page 165 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(b) TANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (` in crores) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Balance at the beginning 1,755.51 2,146.96 Additions 1,440.24 3,208.88 Capitalised during the year (1,863.30) (3,517.93) (Write off)/(Provision)/reversal of impairment 68.37 (82.40) Balance at the end 1,400.82 1,755.51
4 LEASES
T he Company leases a number of buildings, plant and equipment, IT hardware and software assets, certain of which have a renewal and/ or purchase option in the normal course of the business. Extension and termination options are included in a number of leases across the Company. The majority of extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Company and not by the respective lessor. The Company assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension or termination option. The Company re-assesses whether it is reasonably certain to exercise options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within its control. It is recognised that there is potential for lease term assumptions to change in the future due to the effects of the COVID-19
pandemic, and this will continue to be monitored by the Company where relevant. The Company’s leases mature between 2021 and 2029.
W hen measuring lease liability, the Company discounted lease payments using its incremental borrowing rate at April 1, 2019. The weighted
average rate applied is 8.58 %.
The following amounts are included in the Balance Sheet :
Total lease liabilities 690.21 605.54
The following amounts are recognised in the statement of profit and loss :
196 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 166 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) Furniture, Computers Plant, machinery Fixtures Land Buildings Vehicles & other IT Total and equipments and Office assets Equipments Cost as at April 1, 2020 91.77 320.79 504.08 4.31 - 193.39 1,114.34 Additions - 89.95 217.03 - 40.50 9.60 357.08 Sale of business to a subsidiary company - - - (4.31) - (1.08) (5.39) [refer note 49 (vi)] Disposals/adjustments - (71.64) (96.13) - - 1.58 (166.19) Cost as at March 31, 2021 91.77 339.10 624.98 - 40.50 203.49 1,299.84 Accumulated amortisation (1.16) (92.82) (162.41) (3.23) - (185.14) (444.76) as at April 1, 2020 Amortisation for the year (1.13) (74.84) (92.25) (0.43) - (6.84) (175.49) Amortisation - considered as employee cost - - - - (2.75) - (2.75) Reversal of Impairment Loss - 6.81 31.33 - - 0.05 38.19 Sale of business to a subsidiary company - - - 3.66 - 0.88 4.54 [refer note 49 (vi)] Disposal/adjustments - 35.00 14.02 - - - 49.02 Accumulated amortisation | (2.29) (125.85) (209.31) - (2.75) (191.05) (531.25) as at March 31, 2021 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021 89.48 213.25 415.67 - 37.75 12.44 768.59 Cost Adjustment on initial application of Ind AS 116 127.88 246.32 306.28 4.31 - 189.09 873.88 Additions - 76.09 197.80 - - 4.30 278.19 Disposals/adjustments (36.11) (1.62) - - - - (37.73) Cost as at March 31, 2020 91.77 320.79 504.08 4.31 - 193.39 1,114.34 Accumulated amortisation Adjustment on initial application of Ind AS 116 - (7.29) (35.69) (2.37) - (180.57) (225.92) Amortisation for the year (1.16) (76.41) (90.16) (0.86) - (4.49) (173.08) Impairment of Assets - (9.30) (36.56) - - (0.08) (45.94) Disposal/adjustments - 0.18 - - - - 0.18 Accumulated amortisation (1.16) (92.82) (162.41) (3.23) - (185.14) (444.76) as at March 31, 2020 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2020 90.61 227.97 341.67 1.08 - 8.25 669.58 T he Company has committed towards leases of plant ,machinery and equipments which have not yet commenced, for `30.00 crores as on
March 31, 2021 (`171.00 crores as on March 31, 2020).There are no leases with residual value guarantees.
Resilience and Rebound | 197

--- Page 167 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
5. (a) OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (` in crores) Technical Computer Product Total know how Software development Cost as at April 1, 2020 478.15 605.13 9,533.50 10,616.78 Additions - 10.93 2,003.26 2,014.19 Sale of business to a subsidiary company [refer note 49 (vi)] - (1.76) - (1.76) Cost as at March 31, 2021 478.15 614.30 11,536.76 12,629.21 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2020 (267.42) (545.54) (4,235.18) (5,048.14) Amortisation for the year (49.96) (24.32) (1,535.71) (1,609.99) Reversal of Impairment loss - - 429.10 429.10 Sale of business to a subsidiary company [refer note 49 (vi)] - 1.76 - 1.76 Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2021 (317.39) (568.10) (5,341.78) (6,227.27) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021 160.77 46.20 6,194.98 6,401.95 Cost as at April 1, 2019 360.22 585.30 7,226.79 8,172.31 Additions 120.84 21.87 3,308.32 3,451.03 Sale of business to a subsidiary company (2.91) (1.81) - (4.72) Fully amortised not in use - (0.23) (1,001.61) (1,001.84) Cost as at March 31, 2020 478.15 605.13 9,533.50 10,616.78 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2019 (211.22) (521.52) (3,568.44) (4,301.18) Amortisation for the year (59.11) (26.06) (1,126.35) (1,211.52) Sale of business to a subsidiary company 2.91 1.81 - 4.72 Fully amortised not in use - 0.23 1,001.61 1,001.84 Impairment of assets - - (542.00) (542.00) Accumulated amortisation as at March 31, 2020 (267.42) (545.54) (4,235.18) (5,048.14) Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2020 210.73 59.59 5,298.32 5,568.64 (b) INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (` in crores) For the year ended For the year ended Intangible assets under development March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Balance at the beginning 2,739.29 4,139.63 Additions 764.52 2,092.54 Capitalised during the year (2,014.19) (3,330.19) (Write off)/(Provision)/reversal of impairment 116.01 (162.69) Balance at the end 1,605.64 2,739.29 198 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 168 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
6. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES/(REVERSAL) OF PASSENGER VEHICLE SEGMENT AND OTHER PROVISIONS (a) Impairment losses/(reversal) of Passenger vehicle segment The Company tests its passenger vehicle cash generating unit (CGU) for impairment at least annually and more frequently when there is an indication of impairment. An impairment loss is recognized if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value. The Company also periodically assesses if there are any triggers for reversal of previously recognised impairment loss. A reversal of impairment loss
is recognised if there is a trigger for reversal and the recoverable value exceeds the carrying value.
recoverable value determined by Fair Value less Cost of Disposal (‘FVLCD’) was lower than the carrying value of the CGU and this
resulted in an impairment charge for the year ended March 31, 2020 recognised within ‘Exceptional items’.
assumed performance at the time when the impairment loss was recorded. Based on this reassessment, the Company has reversed the
initially recognised impairment for this CGU.
The key drivers for this improved performance include:
the Company to enhance it’s market share to 8.1% for the year ended March 31, 2021 as compared to 4.8% for the year ended March
31, 2020.
applied to actual sales of the CGU for year ended March 31, 2021 has been considered as the FVLCD as per CCM. The fair value of the
CGU is as follows:
Recoverable amount 14,618.60 9,120.00
The approach and key (unobservable) assumptions used to determine the CGU’s FVLCD were as follows:
The carrying value of the CGU was `5,853.39 crores as at March 31, 2021, compared with the recoverable value of `14,618.60 crores,
determined by FVCLD and `10,588.00 crores as per VIU.
The impairment loss recognised in the year ended March 31, 2020 and its subsequent reversal in the year ended March 31, 2021 was
as follows:
Resilience and Rebound | 199

--- Page 169 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Sensitivity to key assumptions The change in the following assumptions used in the impairment review would, in isolation, lead to a change in FVCLD as at March 31,
2021 (although it should be noted that these sensitivities do not take account of potential mitigating actions):
which had become onerous, as the Company estimated that it will procure lower quantities than committed and the costs will exceed
the future economic benefit.
of provision aggregating `777.00 crores has been accounted. During the year the Company has also made provision for estimated
supplier claims of `114.00 crores, which are under negotiations with supplier.
200 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 170 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) Face value As at As at Number Description per unit March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 ii) Associates Quoted 29,82,214 10 Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd 108.22 108.22 Unquoted 16,000 (TK) 1,000 NITA Co. Ltd (Bangladesh) 1.27 1.27 4,54,28,572 10 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery 238.50 238.50 Company Private Ltd 5,23,33,170 10 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd 77.47 425.46 77.47 425.46 (iii) Joint Ventures (JV) Unquoted 25,00,000 10 JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd - 2.50 Less: Provision for impairment - - (2.50) - (iv) Subsidiaries Cumulative convertible preference shares (unquoted) 4,34,00,000 100 TMF Holdings Limited 434.00 434.00 Total 15,147.26 15,182.29 # Less than `50,000
Notes:
extended by the bank to Tata Motors European Technical Centre PLC. UK (TMETC). Also the Company has given an undertaking to ANZ Bank,
London to retain 51% ownership of TMETC at all times during the tenor of the loan.
(3) Includes option pricing value for call/ put option provided by the Company towards perpetual debt issued by TMF Holdings Limited.
(4) T he Company has given a letter of comfort to Unicredit S.P.A., Italy for EUR 1.5 million (`12.87 crores as on March 31, 2021) against Credit
Facility given to Trilix S.R.L. The Company will not dilute its stake in Trilix S.R.L. below 51% during the tenor of the facility.
(5) T he Company has given a letter of comfort to Bank of China, Shanghai Branch for RMB 5,000 million (`5,578.50 crores as at March 31, 2021)
against loan granted by the bank to Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co. Ltd.
against Credit Facility given to TML Holding PTE Ltd., Singapore and a letter of comfort to Bank of Baroda, London for GBP 100 milion
(`1,007.66 crores as on March 31, 2021) against the SBLC Facility extended to TML Holding PTE Ltd., Singapore.
Resilience and Rebound | 201

--- Page 171 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8. INVESTMENTS-NON-CURRENT
(` in crores) Face value As at As at Number Description per unit March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Quoted 54,96,295 10 Tata Steel Ltd 446.23 138.64 Tata Steel Ltd (partly paid) - 1.05 [3,54,599 equity shares converted during the year] Metal Scrap Trade Corporation Ltd. - 446.23 1.27 140.96 [1,60,000 equity shares sold during the year] Unquoted 75,000 1,000 Tata International Ltd 150.69 58.09 [25,000 equity shares acquired during the year] 1,383 1,000 Tata Services Ltd 0.14 0.14 350 900 The Associated Building Company Ltd 0.01 0.01 1,03,10,242 100 Tata Industries Ltd 183.19 183.19 33,600 100 Kulkarni Engineering Associates Ltd - - 12,375 1,000 Tata Sons Pvt Ltd 95.20 68.75 2,25,00,001 10 Haldia Petrochemicals Ltd 74.70 75.49 2,40,000 10 Oriental Floratech (India) Pvt. Ltd - - 43,26,651 15 Tata Capital Ltd 17.44 21.89 50,000 10 NICCO Jubilee Park Ltd. 0.05 521.42 0.05 407.61 Total 967.65 548.57
Note:
a) Investment in equity shares measured at fair value through other comprehensive income also include:
202 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 172 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
9. INVESTMENTS-CURRENT
(` in crores) Face value As at March As at March Number Description per unit 31, 2021 31, 2020 Investments in Mutual funds measured at Fair value through profit and loss Unquoted Mutual funds 1,578.26 885.31 Total 1,578.26 885.31
Note:
Book Value of unquoted investments 1,578.26 885.31
10. LOANS AND ADVANCES- NON CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Unsecured :
Resilience and Rebound | 203

--- Page 173 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
11. LOANS AND ADVANCES- CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Secured :
2021 and 2020, respectively)
Unsecured :
Total 185.42 232.14
Note:
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Dues from subsidiary companies:
204 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 174 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS - NON-CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Derivative financial instruments 750.19 832.06 (b) Restricted deposits 4.02 4.18 ( c) Finance lease receivable 207.13 92.74 (d) Government incentives 639.22 560.89 (e) Recoverable from suppliers 30.00 21.82 (f) Others 1.27 1.27 Total 1,631.83 1,512.96
13. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS - CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Derivative financial instruments 19.25 135.54 (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits 17.95 19.44 ( c) Deposit with financial institutions (refer note below) 1,000.00 750.00 (d) Finance lease receivable 36.16 12.47 (e) Government incentives 501.11 429.69 (f) Recoverable from suppliers 170.59 199.42 Total 1,745.06 1,546.56
Note:
E armarked deposits with financial institutions as at March 31, 2021 of `100.00 crores (as at March 31, 2020 `Nil) is held as security in
relation to repayment of borrowings.
14. OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Capital advances 201.12 332.19 (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government 812.41 635.65 (net of allowances for credit impaired balances of `31.66 crores and `Nil as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively) ( c) Recoverable from Insurance companies 166.72 231.17 (d) Others 7.16 9.07 Total 1,187.41 1,208.08 Resilience and Rebound | 205

--- Page 175 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
15. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Advance to suppliers and contractors 439.13 398.67 (net of allowances for credit impaired balances of `58.21 crores and `44.98 crores as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively) (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government (net of allowances for 530.26 831.66 credit impaired balances of `83.19 crores and `57.75 crores as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively) ( c) Prepaid expenses 127.37 97.27 (d) Recoverable from Insurance companies 18.89 11.58 (e) Employee benefits 43.66 3.10 (f) Others 7.58 29.23 Total 1,166.89 1,371.51
16. INVENTORIES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Raw materials and components 2,063.96 1,415.65 (b) Work-in-progress 523.34 703.89 ( c) Finished goods 1,486.93 1,237.36 (d) Stores and spare parts 177.91 182.52 (e) Consumable tools 35.23 37.97 (f) Goods-in-transit - Raw materials and components 264.34 254.53 Total 4,551.71 3,831.92 During the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded inventory write-down expenses of `45.58 crores and `84.50
crores, respectively.
Cost of inventories (including cost of purchased products) recognized as expense during the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 amounted
to `44,043.06 crores and `41,458.83 crores, respectively.
17. TRADE RECEIVABLES (UNSECURED)
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Receivables considered good 2,087.51 1,978.06 Credit impaired receivables 584.78 639.75 2,672.29 2,617.81 Less : Allowance for credit impaired receivables (584.78) (639.75) Total 2,087.51 1,978.06 18. ALLOWANCE FOR TRADE RECEIVABLES, LOANS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (` in crores) For the year ended For the year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Balance at the beginning 1,499.01 1,484.38 Allowances made during the year * 102.69 65.35 Provision for loan/intercorporate deposits given to subsidiary companies 23.05 23.60 Written off (112.95) (74.32) Balance at the end 1,511.80 1,499.01 * Includes `29.32 crores netted off in revenue (`34.44 crores as at March 31, 2020) 206 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 176 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Cash on hand 0.05 0.10 (b) Cheques on hand 10.50 4.56 ( c) Balances with banks (refer note below) 808.49 1,451.64 (d) Deposits with banks 1,546.50 689.00 2,365.54 2,145.30
Note:
Includes remittances in transit 173.50 1.15
20. OTHER BANK BALANCES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
With upto 12 months maturity:
Total 1,953.40 1,386.89
Note:
(i) E armarked balances with banks as at March 31, 2021 of `316.83 crores (as at March 31, 2020 `198.19 crores) is held as security in
relation to repayment of borrowings.
pending with Employee Provident Fund Organization. Subsequent to the year end, these balances are transferred to Tata Motors
Pension Trust.
Resilience and Rebound | 207

--- Page 177 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
(a) Authorised:
208 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 178 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(h) During the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company has allotted 20,16,23,407 Ordinary Shares at a price of `150 per Ordinary Share aggregating to `3,024.35 crores and 23,13,33,871 Convertible Warrants (‘Warrants’), each carrying a right to subscribe to one Ordinary Share per Warrant, at a price of `150 per Warrant (‘Warrant Price’), aggregating to `3,470.00 crores on a preferential basis to Tata Sons Private Limited. An amount equivalent to 25% of the Warrant Price was paid at the time of subscription and the balance 75% of the Warrant Price was payable by the Warrant holder against each Warrant at the time of allotment of Ordinary Shares pursuant to exercise of the options attached to Warrant(s) to subscribe to Ordinary Share(s) by June 2021.The Company has fully utilised the
amount of `3,891.85 crores towards repayment of debt and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries.
money of `2,602.51 crores, the Company has fully converted 23,13,33,871 convertible warrants into Ordinary Shares, that were
issued during the year ended March 31, 2020. The Company has not utilised any of this amount as at March 31, 2021.
‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each (as at March 31, 2020: 2,33,214 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) are subject matter of various suits filed
in the courts / forums by third parties for which final order is awaited and hence kept in abeyance.
(j) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares :
(i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of `2 each :
is put to vote on a show of hands, the holder of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the same number of votes as available
to holders of Ordinary shares.
entitled to receive dividend for each financial year at five percentage point more than the aggregate rate of dividend declared
on Ordinary shares for that financial year.
• In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of
all preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholdings.
(ii) American Depository Shares (ADSs) and Global Depository Shares (GDSs) :
in respect of the deposited shares by issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms of the respective deposit
agreements.
• Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of `2 each in all
respects including entitlement of the dividend declared.
(k) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital :
Share Capital Share Capital
(i) Ordinary shares :
(b) Citibank N.A. as Depository # 35,37,15,165 # 32,07,93,365
(ii) 'A' Ordinary shares :
Resilience and Rebound | 209

--- Page 179 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(l) Information regarding issue of shares in the last five years
(a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash.
(b) The Company has not issued any bonus shares.
( c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares.
22. A) OTHER COMPONENTS OF EQUITY
(a) The movement of Equity instruments through Other Comprehensive Income is as follows:
Balance at the end 287.70 (56.00)
(b) The movement of Hedging reserve is as follows:
Balance at the end (101.17) (168.55)
( c) The movement of Cost of Hedging reserve is as follows:
Balance at the end (0.80) (42.79)
(d) Summary of Other components of equity:
210 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 180 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(B) Notes to reserves a) Capital redemption reserve The Indian Companies Act, 2013 (the “Companies Act”) requires that where a company purchases its own shares out of free reserves or securities premium account, a sum equal to the nominal value of the shares so purchased shall be transferred to a capital redemption reserve account and details of such transfer shall be disclosed in the balance sheet. The capital redemption reserve account may be applied by the company, in paying up unissued shares of the company to be issued to shareholders of the company as fully paid bonus shares. Tata Motors Limited established this reserve pursuant to the redemption of preference
shares issued in earlier years.
the debenture redemption reserve may not be utilised by the Company except to redeem debentures. No DRR is required for
debentures issued after August 16, 2019.
c) Securities premium
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities Premium.
d) Retained earnings
Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date.
e) Capital reserve
The capital reserve represents the excess of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the consideration paid.
Limited Standalone, no dividend was permitted to be paid to the members, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed
thereunder.
Share-based payments reserve represents amount of fair value, as on the date of grant, of unvested options and vested options
not exercised till date, that have been recognised as expense in the statement of profit and loss till date.
23. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Secured:
(a) Privately placed Non-Convertible Debentures (refer note I (ii)) 997.46 -
(b) Term loans:
4,725.39 793.75
Unsecured:
Resilience and Rebound | 211

--- Page 181 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
24. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Secured:
1,301.69 3,334.02
Unsecured:
I. Information regarding long-term borrowings
(i) Nature of security (on loans including interest accrued thereon) :
June 30, 2022 to quarter ending June 30, 2026, along with a simple interest of 8.50% p.a. The loan is secured by a charge over Company’s
leasehold land together with building structures, plant and machinery, fixtures and other assets.
charge (creation of charge is under process) over Company’s freehold land together with immovable properties, plant and machinery and
other movable assets (excluding stock and book debts) situated at Sanand plant in the State of Gujarat.
to March 31, 2034, along with a simple interest of 0.01% p.a. The loan is secured by bank guarantee for the due performance of the
conditions as per the terms of the agreement.
operation Fiat India Automobiles Private Ltd which is due for repayment from June 2021 to September 2025. The loan is secured by first
charge over movable fixed assets procured from its loan/jeep project.
212 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 182 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(ii) Schedule of repayment and redemption for Non-Convertible Debentures :
Non-Convertible Debentures (NCDs) Redeemable on Principal
Secured :
The 8.80% Non-convertible Debentures are secured by a charge over Company’s leasehold land together with building structures,
plant and machinery, fixtures and other assets.
Unsecured :
* Classified as other financial liabilities- current (refer note 26) being maturity before March 31, 2022
(iii) Schedule of repayment of Senior Notes:
(iv) T he external commercial borrowings of USD 237.47 million (`1,721.12 crores) bearing floating interest rate of 3 months
LIBOR+128bps is due for repayment in June 2025.
September 30, 2021 to June 30, 2026. The Buyer’s line of credit of `291.67 crores classified under other financial liabilities-
current being maturity before March 31, 2022.
Resilience and Rebound | 213

--- Page 183 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
II. Information regarding short-term borrowings (i) L oans, cash credits, overdrafts and buyers line of credit from banks bearing fixed interest rate from 5.05% to 7.00% are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company viz. stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-finished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including receivable from hire purchase / leasing and all other moveable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances
of the Company both present and future.
Total 7,963.10 6,021.69
Annual disclosure for reporting of fund raising of issuance of Debt Securities by Large Corporate :
214 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 184 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
25. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES – NON-CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Derivative financial instruments 166.49 240.45 (b) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings - 1.02 ( c) Liability towards employee separation scheme 132.67 75.83 (d) Option premium payable 293.55 412.12 (e) Others 66.93 125.32 Total 659.64 854.74
26. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES – CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Current maturities of long-term borrowings (refer note 1 below) 2,879.45 4,546.90 (b) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 368.36 398.72 ( c) Liability for capital expenditure (refer note 2 below) 231.38 179.40 (d) Deposits and retention money 588.63 516.94 (e) Derivative financial instruments 9.27 39.03 (f) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 2013 not due (i) Unpaid dividends 3.01 4.57 (ii) Unpaid matured deposits and interest thereon 0.13 0.64 (iii) Unpaid debentures and interest thereon 0.18 0.18 (g) Liability towards employee separation scheme 33.63 13.93 (h) Option premium payable 110.33 91.87 (i) Liability for factoring sales 24.95 178.38 (j) Others 6.25 5.79 Total 4,255.57 5,976.35
Note:
1. Details of Current maturities of long-term borrowings :
2. I ncludes `22.48 crores outstanding as at March 31, 2021 towards principal and interest provision on dues of micro enterprises and
small enterprises as per MSMED ACT 2006.
27. PROVISIONS-NON CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Employee benefits obligations 719.72 806.04 (b) Warranty 652.17 548.40 ( c) Provision for onerous contract and related supplier claims (refer note 6 (b)) - 414.75 (d) Annual maintenance contract (AMC) 0.05 0.55 Total 1,371.94 1,769.74 Resilience and Rebound | 215

--- Page 185 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
28. PROVISIONS-CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Warranty 872.38 989.19 (b) Provision for onerous contract and related supplier claims (refer note 6 (b)) 117.44 362.25 ( c) Employee benefits obligations 36.64 36.56 (d) Others 17.08 18.75 Total 1,043.54 1,406.75 Note Onerous contract and Warranty provision movement Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2021 Onerous contract Warranty Balance at the beginning 777.00 1,537.59 Provision/(reversal) made during the year (659.56) 420.89 Provision used during the year - (557.77) Impact of discounting - 123.84 Balance at the end 117.44 1,524.55 Current 117.44 872.38 Non-current - 652.17
29. INCOME TAXES
The reconciliation of income tax expense calculated as per tax rates applicable to individual entities with income tax expense is as follows:
Additional deduction for patent, research and product development cost - (281.75)
Items (net) not deductible for tax/not liable to tax :
Income tax expense reported in statement of profit and loss 82.87 162.29
Note:
enacted by the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 (“the Ordinance”) which is applicable from Financial Year beginning April 1, 2019. TML
has accordingly applied the existing tax rates in the financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2021.
216 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 186 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:
from OCI
Deferred tax assets:
Business loss carry forwards 1,232.38 483.45 - 1,715.83
Expenses deductible in future years:
Total deferred tax assets 4,836.50 274.46 (49.57) 5,061.39
Deferred tax liabilities:
differences and business losses. The deferred tax asset has not been recognised on the basis that its recovery is not probable in the
foreseeable future.
As at March 31, 2021 unrecognised deferred tax assets expire unutilised based on the year of origination as follows:
Thereafter 2,422.34
Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2020 are as follows:
profit and loss reclassified from OCI
Deferred tax assets:
Business loss carry forwards 2,132.50 (900.12) - 1,232.38
Expenses deductible in future years:
Total deferred tax assets 5,238.14 (540.69) 139.05 4,836.50
Deferred tax liabilities:
Resilience and Rebound | 217

--- Page 187 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30. OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Contract liabilities (note (a) below) 305.43 134.42 (b) Government incentives (note (b) below) 41.65 62.93 ( c) Employee Benefit Obligations - Funded 175.55 61.31 (d) Others 10.92 10.92 Total 533.55 269.58
31. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Contract liabilities (note (a) below) 1,146.92 655.82 (b) Statutory dues (GST,VAT, Excise, Service Tax, Octroi etc) 928.33 464.47 ( c) Government incentives (note (b) below) 116.09 154.46 (d) Others 96.16 72.88 Total 2,287.50 1,347.63
Note:
Performance obligations in respect of amount received in respect of future maintenance service and extended warranty will be fulfilled over a
period of 6 years from year ending March 31, 2021 till March 31, 2026.
a specified period of time. In case such commitments are not met, the Company would be required to pay the duty saved along with
interest to the regulatory authorities.
218 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 188 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
32. REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Sale of products (refer note 1 and 2 below) (i) Vehicles 39,283.64 36,583.83 (ii) Spare parts 4,464.05 4,505.79 (iii) Miscellaneous products 2,365.62 1,927.98 Total Sale of products 46,113.31 43,017.60 (b) Sale of services 446.08 468.16 Revenue 46,559.39 43,485.76 ( c) Other operating revenues (refer note 3 below) 472.08 442.41 Total 47,031.47 43,928.17
Note:
(3) Includes profit on sale of properties 143.44 91.44
33. OTHER INCOME
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Interest income 196.24 483.72 (b) Dividend income (refer note below) 20.45 241.22 ( c) Government incentives 548.27 588.38 (d) Profit on sale of investments at FVTPL 72.80 70.16 (e) MTM – Investments measured at FVTPL 5.20 (0.43) Total 842.96 1,383.05
Note:
Includes :
(b) From investment measured at FVTOCI 17.66 19.80
34. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Salaries, wages and bonus * 3,590.53 3,653.34 (b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds 270.99 254.90 ( c) Staff welfare expenses 351.47 476.07 Total 4,212.99 4,384.31 Share based payments The Company has allotted share based incentives to certain employees during the year ended March 31, 2019, under Tata Motors Limited Employee Stock Options Scheme 2018 approved by Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC). As per the scheme, the number of shares that will vest is conditional upon certain performance measures determined by NRC. The performance is measured over vesting period of the options granted which ranges from 3 to 5 years. The performance measures under this scheme include growth in sales, earnings and free cash flow. The options granted under this scheme is exercisable by employees till one year from date of its vesting. The Company has granted options at an exercise price of `345/-. Option granted will vest equally each year starting from 3 years from date of grant up to
5 years from date of grant. Number of shares that will vest range from 0.5 to 1.5 per option granted depending on performance measures.
Resilience and Rebound | 219

--- Page 189 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Options outstanding at the beginning of the year 72,22,897 78,12,427 Granted during the year - - Forfeited/Expired during the year (4,18,894) (5,89,530) Exercised during the year - - Outstanding at the end of the year 68,04,003 72,22,897 Number of shares to be issued for outstanding options (conditional on performance 1,02,06,005/34,02,002 1,08,34,346/36,11,449 measures) Maximum 1,02,06,005 1,08,34,346 Minimum 34,02,002 36,11,449 The Company has estimated fair value of options using Black Scholes model. The following assumptions were used for calculation of fair
value of options granted.
* The amount of `9.04 crores and `4.70 crores has accrued in salaries, wages and bonus for the year ended March 31, 2021 and March 31,
2020, respectively towards share based payments.
35. FINANCE COSTS
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Interest 2,130.17 1,973.48 Add: Exchange fluctuation considered as interest cost - 56.35 Less: Transferred to capital account (190.48) (423.76) 1,939.69 1,606.07 (b) Discounting charges 418.85 366.93 Total 2,358.54 1,973.00
Note:
The weighted average rate for capitalisation of interest relating to general borrowings were approximately 7.44% and 7.52% for the years
ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
36. OTHER EXPENSES
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Processing charges 953.49 1,051.13 (b) Consumption of stores & spare parts 417.57 461.37 ( c) Power and fuel 371.78 428.85 (d) Freight, transportation, port charges etc. 802.84 1,077.20 (e) Publicity 444.37 846.60 (f) Warranty expenses ^ 441.54 538.36 (g) Information technology/computer expenses 728.88 764.31 (h) Allowances made/(reversed) for trade and other receivables (net) 73.37 30.91 (i) Loss on assets scrapped / written off 16.16 168.04 (j) Works operation and other expenses (note below)* 1,551.90 2,353.98 Total 5,801.90 7,720.75 * Includes rates and taxes (refer note (e) below) 50.78 369.55 ^ Net of estimated recovery from suppliers (20.65) (31.74) 220 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 190 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note:
Year ended Year ended
Works operation and other expenses include:
(ii) Audit fees for financial statements as per IFRS (including SOX certification) 3.41 4.90^
(iii) In other Capacities :
acquisition of an asset of the Company. The prescribed CSR expenditure required to be spent in the year 2020-21 as per the Companies
Act, 2013 is `Nil, in view of average net profits of the Company being `Nil (under section 198 of the Act) for last three financial years.
which is subject to approval of the shareholders, which the Company proposes to obtain in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
(e) D uring the year ended March 31, 2020, provision for certain Indirect taxes for matters under litigation for FY 2002 to FY 2006 were
made for `241.25 crores, which is included in other expenses.
Total (817.53) (1,169.46)
38. EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS
E xceptional amount of `114.00 crores and `(73.03) crores during the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, is related to write off/provision
(reversal) of certain property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development.
Resilience and Rebound | 221

--- Page 191 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
39. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
I n the ordinary course of business, the Company faces claims and assertions by various parties. The Company assesses such claims and assertions and monitors the legal environment on an ongoing basis, with the assistance of external legal counsel, wherever necessary. The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and discloses such matters in its financial statements, if material. For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable, the Company provides disclosure in
the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes probable.
of the contingencies described below would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.
T he Company is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant. There are claims which the Company does not believe to be
of material nature, other than those described below.
expenses, the tax treatment of certain expenses claimed by the Company as deductions and the computation of, or eligibility of, the Company’s
use of certain tax incentives or allowances.
M ost of these disputes and/or disallowances, being repetitive in nature, have been raised by the income tax authorities consistently in most
of the years.
appeal to the Bombay High Court or the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India against adverse decisions by the appellate authorities for matters
involving substantial question of law. The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal.
A s at March 31, 2021, there are contingent liabilities towards matters and/or disputes pending in appeal amounting to `101.89 crores
(`90.21 crores as at March 31, 2020).
of the Company’s products and denied the Company’s claims of Central Value Added Tax, or CENVAT credit on inputs. The details of the
demands for more than `100 crores are as follows:
the Company, which the Excise Authorities claim requires the payment of the National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD). The Company has
obtained a technical expert certificate on the classification. The appeal is pending before the Custom Excise & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal.
T he total sales tax demands (including interest and penalty), that are being contested by the Company amount to `1,359.51 crores as at
March 31, 2021 (`914.12 crores as at March 31, 2020). The details of the demands for more than `100 crores are as follows:
proof of export for certain years. The Company has contended that the benefit cannot be denied on technicalities, which are being complied
with. The matter is pending at various levels.
by Vendors, incorrect method of calculation of set off as per the department, alleging suppression of sales as per the department etc. The
matter is contested in appeal.
222 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 192 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Sales Tax authorities have raised demand for Check post/ Entry Tax liability at various states amounting to `434.59 crores as at March
31, 2021 (`65.81 crores as at March 31, 2020). The company is contesting this issue.
that the Company’s manufacturing plant dispatching chassis for enroot body building to bodybuilders as bill to the Company and ship to
bodybuilders is constituted as export sale after Chassis export. The matter is contested in appeal.
Other amounts for which the Company may contingently be liable aggregate to `231.53 crores as at March 31, 2021 (`288.17 crores as at
March 31, 2020). Following are the cases involving more than `100 crores:
the EPFO, the impact for past periods, if any, is not ascertainable reliably and consequently no financial effect has been provided for in the
financial statements. The Company has complied with this on a prospective basis, from the date of the SC order.
permitted grant of Provident Fund pension on last drawn salary. The Supreme Court has recalled its 2019 order which had paved way for
pension on last drawn salary for employees by removing the current salary ceiling of `15,000.
various civil contracts of a capital nature amounting to `957.16 crores as at March 31, 2021 (`1,320.67 crores as at March 31, 2020), which
are yet to be executed.
The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of intangible assets of a capital nature
amounting to `99.64 crores as at March 31, 2021, (`146.15 crores as at March 31, 2020), which are yet to be executed.
The Company has contractual obligation towards Purchase Commitment (net of provisions) for `2024.00 crores as at March 31, 2021
(`1,374.00 crores as at March 31, 2020).
40. EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE (“EPS”)
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Profit/(loss) after tax ` crores (2,395.44) (7,289.63) (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 3,128,268,742 2,952,353,090 ( c) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 508,502,896 508,502,473 (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and 'A' Ordinary) ` 2 2 (e) Share of profit / (loss) for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS ` crores (2,060.50) (6,218.57) (f) Share of profit / (loss) for 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS * ` crores (334.94) (1,071.06) (g) Earnings per Ordinary share (Basic) ` (6.59) (21.06) (h) Earnings per 'A' Ordinary share (Basic) ` (6.59) (21.06) (i) Profit after tax for Diluted EPS ` crores # # Resilience and Rebound | 223

--- Page 193 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(j) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. # # (k) Add: Adjustment for shares held in abeyance Nos. # # (l) Add: Adjustment for Options relating to warrants Nos. # # (m) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. # # (n) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. # # (o) Add: Adjustment for 'A' Ordinary shares held in abeyance Nos. # # (p) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. # # (q) Share of profit for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS ` crores # # (r) Share of profit for 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS * ` crores # # (s) Earnings per Ordinary share (Diluted) ` (6.59) (21.06) (t) Earnings per 'A' Ordinary share (Diluted) ` (6.59) (21.06) * ‘A’ Ordinary Shareholders are entitled to receive dividend @ 5% points more than the aggregate rate of dividend determined by the Company
on Ordinary Shares for the financial year.
# Since there is a loss for the year ended March 31, 2021, potential equity shares are not considered as dilutive and hence Diluted EPS is
same as Basic EPS.
Employee Stock options are not considered to be dilutive based on the average market price of ordinary shares during the period.
41. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
T he Company’s capital management is intended to create value for shareholders by facilitating the meeting of long-term and short-term
goals of the Company.
investment plans. The funding requirements are met through equity, non-convertible debentures, senior notes and other long-term/short-
term borrowings. The Company’s policy is aimed at combination of short-term and long-term borrowings.
T he Company monitors the capital structure on the basis of total debt to equity ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio of the
Company.
T otal borrowings includes all long and short-term borrowings as disclosed in notes 23, 24 and 26 (a) to the financial statements. Equity
comprises all components excluding (profit)/loss on cash flow hedges.
The following table summarises the capital of the Company:
224 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 194 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Resilience and Rebound | 225
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
FO
TRAP
GNIMROF
SETON
STNEMURTSNI
LAICNANIF
NO
SERUSOLCSID
.24 laicnanif niatnoc taht smeti teehs ecnalab no noitamrofni lanoitidda sedivorp dna ynapmoC eht rof stnemurtsni laicnanif fo ecnacifingis eht fo weivrevo na sevig noitces sihT .stnemurtsni seitilibail dna stessa laicnaniF )a( .1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa seitilibail dna stessa laicnanif fo yrogetac hcae fo eulav riaf dna stnuoma gniyrrac eht stneserp elbat gniwollof ehT )serorc ni `( rehto sevitavireD sevitavireD gnigdeh ni naht rehto dna ,hsaC gniyrrac latoT gnigdeh ni - stnemtsevnI - stnemtsevnI eulav riaf latoT ta( pihsnoitaler ta stessa laicnanif eulav riaf ta( pihsnoitaler
LPTVF
ICOTVF
hguorht eulav riaf tsoc desitroma )eulav )ssol ro tiforp stessa laicnaniF 56.769 56.769 - - - 56.769 - tnerruc-non - stnemtsevnI )a( 62.875,1 62.875,1 - - 62.875,1 - - tnerruc - stnemtsevnI )b( 15.780,2 15.780,2 - - - - 15.780,2 selbaviecer edarT )c ( 45.563,2 45.563,2 - - - - 45.563,2 stnelaviuqe hsac dna hsaC )d( 04.359,1 04.359,1 - - - - 04.359,1 secnalab knab rehtO )e( 50.621 50.621 - - - - 50.621 tnerruc-non - secnavda dna snaoL )f( 24.581 24.581 - - - - 24.581 tnerruc - secnavda dna snaoL )g( 38.136,1 38.136,1 46.605 55.342 - - 46.188 tnerruc-non - stessa laicnanif rehtO )h( 60.547,1 60.547,1 13.3 49.51 - - 18.527,1 tnerruc - stessa laicnanif rehtO )i( 27.046,21 27.046,21 59.905 94.952 62.875,1 56.769 73.523,9 latoT sevitavireD sevitavireD latoT laicnanif rehtO naht rehto gnigdeh ni eulav riaf latoT gniyrrac ta( seitilibail gnigdeh ni riaf ta( pihsnoitaler eulav )tsoc desitroma riaf ta( pihsnoitaler )eulav )eulav seitilibail laicnaniF 77.585,91 22.602,91 22.602,91 - - )sgniworrob mret-gnol fo seitirutam tnerruC gnidulcni( sgniworrob mret-gnoL )a( 70.206 47.395 47.395 - - tnerruc non -seitilibail esaeL )b( 05.245,2 05.245,2 05.245,2 - - sgniworrob mret-trohS )c ( 74.69 74.69 74.69 - - tnerruc -seitilibail esaeL )d( 10.511,8 10.511,8 10.511,8 - - selbayap edarT )e( 21.378,7 21.378,7 21.378,7 - - secnatpeccA )f( 46.956 46.956 51.394 39.251 65.31 tnerruc-non - seitilibail laicnanif rehtO )g( 21.673,1 21.673,1 58.663,1 79.1 03.7 tnerruc - seitilibail laicnanif rehtO )h( 07.058,04 28.264,04 60.782,04 09.451 68.02 latoT

--- Page 195 ---
Standalone 226 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
FO
TRAP
GNIMROF
SETON
.0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa seitilibail dna stessa laicnanif fo yrogetac hcae fo eulav riaf dna stnuoma gniyrrac eht stneserp elbat gniwollof ehT )serorc ni `( rehto sevitavireD sevitavireD gnigdeh ni naht rehto dna ,hsaC gniyrrac latoT gnigdeh ni - stnemtsevnI - stnemtsevnI eulav riaf latoT ta( pihsnoitaler ta stessa laicnanif eulav riaf ta( pihsnoitaler
LPTVF
ICOTVF
hguorht eulav riaf tsoc desitroma )eulav )ssol ro tiforp stessa laicnaniF 75.845 75.845 - - - 75.845 - tnerruc-non - stnemtsevnI )a( 13.588 13.588 - - 13.588 - - tnerruc - stnemtsevnI )b( 60.879,1 60.879,1 - - - - 60.879,1 selbaviecer edarT )c ( 03.541,2 03.541,2 - - - - 03.541,2 stnelaviuqe hsac dna hsaC )d( 98.683,1 98.683,1 - - - - 98.683,1 secnalab knab rehtO )e( 64.831 64.831 - - - - 64.831 tnerruc-non - secnavda dna snaoL )f( 41.232 41.232 - - - - 41.232 tnerruc - secnavda dna snaoL )g( 69.215,1 69.215,1 99.456 70.771 - - 09.086 tnerruc-non - stessa laicnanif rehtO )h( 65.645,1 65.645,1 - 45.531 - - 20.114,1 tnerruc - stessa laicnanif rehtO )i( 52.473,01 52.473,01 99.456 16.213 13.588 75.845 77.279,7 latoT sevitavireD sevitavireD laicnanif rehtO naht rehto gniyrrac latoT gnigdeh ni eulav riaf latoT ta( seitilibail gnigdeh ni eulav riaf ta( pihsnoitaler )tsoc desitroma riaf ta( pihsnoitaler )eulav )eulav seitilibail laicnaniF 09.668,81 14.323,91 14.323,91 - - )sgniworrob mret-gnol fo seitirutam tnerruC gnidulcni( sgniworrob mret-gnoL )a( 42.225 42.225 42.225 - - tnerruc non -seitilibail esaeL )b( 63.121,6 63.121,6 63.121,6 - - sgniworrob mret-trohS )c ( 03.38 03.38 03.38 - - tnerruc -seitilibail esaeL )d( 52.201,8 52.201,8 52.201,8 - - selbayap edarT )e( 96.147,2 96.147,2 96.147,2 - - secnatpeccA )f( 47.458 47.458 92.416 80.912 73.12 tnerruc-non - seitilibail laicnanif rehtO )g( 54.924,1 54.924,1 24.093,1 78.32 61.51 tnerruc - seitilibail laicnanif rehtO )h( 39.127,83 44.871,93 69.898,83 59.242 35.63 latoT

--- Page 196 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fair Value Hierarchy The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into
Level 1 to Level 3, as described below.
(unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. This category consists of quoted equity shares, quoted corporate debt instruments
and mutual fund investments.
than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e; as prices) or indirectly (i.e; derived from
prices). This level of hierarchy include Company’s over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts.
based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they
based on available market data.
There has been no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 for the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020.
109, the Company has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments at FVTOCI as the directors believes this provides a more
meaningful presentation for medium or long term strategic investments, than reflecting changes in fair value in profit or loss.
Derivatives are fair valued using market observable rates and published prices together with forecast cash flow information where applicable.
The following table provides an analysis of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value on recurring basis, grouped into
Level 1 to Level 3 categories:
Resilience and Rebound | 227

--- Page 197 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) As at March 31, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Total - - - - Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long-term 4,244.63 15,341.14 - 19,585.77 borrowings) (b) Short-term borrowings - 2,542.50 - 2,542.50 ( c) Option premium accrual - 383.77 - 383.77 Total 4,244.63 18,267.41 - 22,512.04 (` in crores) As at March 31, 2020 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets not measured at fair value (a) Investments - - - - Total - - - - Financial liabilities not measured at fair value (a) Long-term borrowings (including Current maturities of long- 5,527.22 13,339.68 - 18,866.90 term borrowings) (b) Short-term borrowings - 6,121.36 - 6,121.36 ( c) Option premium accrual - 397.41 - 397.41 Total 5,527.22 19,858.45 - 25,385.67
Other short-term financial assets and liabilities are stated at amortised cost which is approximately equal to their fair value.
value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using a discount rate equivalent to the risk-free rate of return, adjusted for the credit
spread considered by the lenders for instruments of similar maturity.
of all the amounts that the Company could have realised or paid in sale transactions as of respective dates. As such, the fair value of the financial
instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates may be different from the amounts reported at each year end.
Certain financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to offsetting where there is currently a legally enforceable right to set off recognised
amounts and the Company intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability, simultaneously.
Certain derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to master netting arrangements, whereby in the case of insolvency, derivative
financial assets and financial liabilities will be settled on a net basis.
The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset, in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available
for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2021:
228 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 198 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) Amounts subject to an enforceable Gross amount Net amount master netting arrangement Gross amount recognised as set Net amount presented in the Cash recognised off in the balance Financial after offsetting balance sheet collateral sheet instruments (received/pledged) Total 8,568.90 (278.13) 8,290.77 (7.40) - 8,283.37 The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available
for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2020:
In the course of its business, the Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity
prices, liquidity and credit risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments.
the financial assets and liabilities such as interest rate risks and credit risks. The risk management policy is approved by the board of
directors. The risk management framework aims to:
• C reate a stable business planning environment by reducing the impact of currency and interest rate fluctuations on the Company’s
business plan.
• A chieve greater predictability to earnings by determining the financial value of the expected earnings in advance.
foreign currency exchange rates, equity price fluctuations, liquidity and other market changes. Future specific market movements
cannot be normally predicted with reasonable accuracy.
(a) Foreign currency exchange rate risk:
references more than one currency or where assets/liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the functional
currency.
arising from fluctuations in exchange rates in those countries. The risks primarily relate to fluctuations in U.S. dollar, Euro
and GBP against the respective functional currencies of the Company.
foreign exchange and interest rate exposure. Any weakening of the functional currency may impact the Company’s cost of
exports and cost of borrowings and consequently may increase the cost of financing the Company’s capital expenditures.
Resilience and Rebound | 229

--- Page 199 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
T he Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks.
It hedges a part of these risks by using derivative financial instruments in accordance with its risk management policies.
exposure of each currency and a simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift in the foreign exchange rates of each
currency by 10% while keeping the other variables as constant.
T he exposure as indicated below is mitigated by some of the derivative contracts entered into by the Company as disclosed
in (iv) derivative financial instruments and risk management below.
T he following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives
disclosed at clause (iv) below) as of March 31, 2021:
1 O thers mainly include currencies such as the Russian ruble, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, Indonesian Rupiahs, Thai
bahts and Korean won.
would result in decrease/increase in the Company’s net profit/(loss) before tax by approximately `39.88 crores and
`719.28 crores for financial assets and financial liabilities respectively for the year ended March 31, 2021.
The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from
derivatives disclosed at clause (iv) below) as of March 31, 2020:
2 O thers mainly include currencies such as the Russian ruble, Japanese yen, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, South
African rand and Korean won.
would result in decrease/increase in the Company’s net profit/(loss) before tax by approximately `145.71 crores and
`980.21 crores for financial assets and financial liabilities, respectively for the year ended March 31, 2020.
I nterest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rates will lead to changes in fair value of financial instruments or
changes in interest income, expense and cash flows of the Company.
exposure is mainly related to debt obligations. The Company also uses a mix of interest rate sensitive financial instruments
to manage the liquidity and fund requirements for its day to day operations like short term loans.
decrease/increase in profit/(loss) before tax of `58.44 crores and `66.39 crores for the year ended March 31, 2021 and
2020, respectively.
market interest rates. Also, the interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market
interest rates, while interest rates on other types of assets may change with a lag.
as at that date. The period end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt outstanding during the
period.
230 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 200 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
(Note: The impact is indicated on the profit/(loss) before tax basis).
( c) Equity Price risk
Equity Price Risk is related to the change in market reference price of the investments in equity securities.
crores, respectively. A 10% change in equity price as of March 31, 2021 and 2020 would result in a pre- tax impact of `44.62
crores and `14.10 crores, respectively.
(Note: The impact is indicated on equity before consequential tax impact, if any).
or obligations. Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well as
concentration risks.
counterparties by regularly monitoring their situation based on their financial condition. None of the financial instruments of the
Company result in material concentrations of credit risks.
balances with banks, short term deposits with banks, trade receivables, finance receivables, margin money and other financial
assets excluding equity investments.
receivables and other receivables, and other loans or receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indications
as at March 31, 2021, and March 31, 2020, that defaults in payment obligations will occur.
Credit quality of financial assets and impairment loss
The ageing of trade receivables as of balance sheet date is given below. The age analysis has been considered from the due date.
Trade receivables overdue more than six months include `538.91 crores as at March 31, 2021 (`471.35 crores as at March 31,
2020) outstanding from Government organizations in India, which are considered recoverable.
provided. Further the Company, groups the trade receivables depending on type of customers and accordingly credit risk is
determined.
Resilience and Rebound | 231

--- Page 201 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(iii) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty to meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity
risk management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements.
(taken/issued by the Company) falling due for repayment in the next 12 months in bank deposits, to meet the regulatory norms
of liquidity requirements.
The Company also constantly monitors funding options available in the debt and capital markets with a view to maintaining
financial flexibility.
The table below provides undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments as at
March 31, 2021:
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments
as at March 31, 2020:
generally a bank. These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policies and
procedures.
on its fixed rate or variable rate debt. The Company uses interest rate derivatives or currency swaps to hedge exposure to
exchange rate fluctuations on principal and interest payments for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Specific transactional risks include risks like liquidity and pricing risks, interest rate and exchange rate fluctuation risks, volatility
risks, counterparty risks, settlement risks and gearing risks.
Fair value of derivative financial instruments are determined using valuation techniques based on information derived from
observable market data.
232 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 202 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows:
The gain/(loss) due to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange rates on derivative contracts, recognised in the income statement
was `(184.97) crores and `291.73 crores for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
platinum and palladium. This risk is mitigated through the use of derivative contracts and fixed-price contracts with suppliers. The
derivative contracts are not hedge accounted under Ind AS 109 but are instead measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The (gain)/loss on commodity derivative contracts, recognised in the statement of profit and loss was `(40.39) crores and `20.70
crores for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
Resilience and Rebound | 233

--- Page 203 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
43. SEGMENT REPORTING
T he Company primarily operates in the automotive segment. The automotive segment includes all activities relating to development, design, manufacture, assembly and sale of vehicles, as well as sale of related parts and accessories. The Company’s products mainly include
commercial vehicles and passenger vehicles.
Accordingly, the automotive segment is bifurcated into the following:
Vehicle Vehicle* Unallocable
Revenues:
incentives), finance costs, foreign exchange loss (net),
exceptional items and tax :
Reconciliation to Profit/(loss) before tax:
Segment assets 22,478.62 16,669.73 39,148.35
Reconciliation to total assets:
Segment liabilities 16,296.11 5,725.94 22,022.05
Reconciliation to total liabilities:
234 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 204 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) For the year ended/as at March 31, 2020 Commercial Passenger Corporate/ Total Vehicle Vehicle* Unallocable
Revenues:
incentives), finance costs, foreign exchange loss (net),
exceptional items and tax :
Reconciliation to Profit before tax:
Segment assets 21,845.57 16,774.98 38,620.55
Reconciliation to total assets:
Segment liabilities 11,237.44 5,204.60 16,442.04
Reconciliation to total liabilities:
Resilience and Rebound | 235

--- Page 205 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
44. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS
T he Company’s related parties principally includes subsidiaries, joint operations, associates and their subsidiaries, Tata Sons Pvt Limited, subsidiaries and joint ventures of Tata Sons Pvt Limited. The Company routinely enters into transactions with these related parties in the
ordinary course of business.
unsecured and will be settled in cash
The following table summarises related-party transactions and balances for the year ended / as at March 31, 2021:
236 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 206 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) Tata Sons Pvt Ltd, Joint Associates and its Subsidiaries its subsidiaries and Total Arrangements subsidiaries joint arrangements Provision for amount receivable (including 708.93 - - - 708.93 loans)
The following table summarises related-party transactions and balances for the year ended / as at March 31, 2020:
Resilience and Rebound | 237

--- Page 207 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Details of significant transactions are given below:
known as Concorde Motors (India) Limited]
Compensation of key management personnel:
Year ended Year ended
Compensation of key management personnel:
and Long Term Incentives, which will be accrued post approval by the Board of Directors. The Company has reappointed CEO and Managing
Director from February 15, 2021 till June 30, 2021, which is subject to the approval of the Central Government and the Shareholders.
Remuneration for the period February 15, 2021 to March 31, 2021 of `1.89 crores (`11.82 crores for the year ended March 31, 2020)
included above is subject to the approval.
* For the year ended March 31, 2020, the Compensation of COO and Executive Director includes `2.41 crores for Gratuity, leave encashment
and Ex-gratia paid on superannuation.
Refer note 47 for information on transactions with post employment benefit plans.
238 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 208 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
45. DISCLOSURES REQUIRED BY SCHEDULE V OF SEBI (LISTING OBLIGATIONS AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS) REGULATIONS, 2015 AND SECTION 186 (4) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013
(a) Amount of loans / advances in nature of loans outstanding from subsidiaries as at March 31, 2021, on a standalone basis.
March 31, 2020 the year
NAME OF THE COMPANY
(i) Subsidiaries:
* JT Special Vehicle (P) Ltd ceased to be a Joint Venture and became a Wholly-owned Subsidiary w.e.f. August 11, 2020
(b) Details of Investments made are given in notes 7, 8, and 9 .
Resilience and Rebound | 239

--- Page 209 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
47. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
(i) Defined Benefit Plan Pension and post retirement medical plans T he following tables sets out the funded and unfunded status and the amounts recognised in the financial statements for the pension and the
post retirement medical plans in respect of Tata Motors and joint operations:
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Change in defined benefit obligations :
Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 1,189.05 1,175.83 171.78 156.43
Change in plan assets:
Net liability (85.92) (163.23) (171.78) (156.43)
Amounts in the balance sheet:
240 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 210 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consists of (` in crores) Pension Benefits Post retirement medical Benefits As at As at As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Remeasurements (gains) / losses 105.63 150.48 (34.96) (41.02) 105.63 150.48 (34.96) (41.02)
Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets 13.59 990.15
Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation less than plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets 1,086.69 22.45
Information for unfunded plans:
Defined benefit obligation 132.73 125.78 171.78 156.43
Net pension and post retirement medical cost consist of the following components:
Resilience and Rebound | 241

--- Page 211 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income.
Total recognised in statement of comprehensive income 38.40 156.66 24.22 21.50
The assumptions used in accounting for the pension and post retirement medical plans are set out below:
Plan Assets
The fair value of Company’s pension plan asset as of March 31, 2021 and 2020 by category are as follows:
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Asset category:
to other exposure limitations. The Company evaluates the risks, transaction costs and liquidity for potential investments. To measure plan
asset performance, the Company compares actual returns for each asset category with published bench marks.
T he weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2021 is 13.1 years ( March 31, 2020 : 14.0 years).
The Company expects to contribute `87.73 crores to the funded pension plans during the year ended March 31, 2022.
242 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 212 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
T he table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/increase
of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation and health care cost:
The following tables set out the funded status of the defined benefit provident fund plan of Tata Motors Limited and the amounts recognized
in the Company’s financial statements.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Change in benefit obligations:
Defined benefit obligations at the end 4,320.88 3,865.99
Change in plan assets:
Resilience and Rebound | 243

--- Page 213 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(` in crores) As at As at
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consists of:
For the year ended For the year ended
Net periodic cost for Provident Fund consists of following components:
For the year ended For the year ended
Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income.
Total recognised in statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income 193.64 137.12
The assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of the Provident Fund is set out below:
Remaining term to maturity of portfolio 19.7 19.0
The breakup of the plan assets into various categories as at March 31, 2021 is as follows:
Total 100.0% 100.0%
The asset allocation for plan assets is determined based on investment criteria prescribed under the relevant regulations.
A s at March 31, 2021, the defined benefit obligation would be affected by approximately `160.84 crores on account of a 0.50% decrease in
the expected rate of return on plan assets.
The Company expects to contribute `82.73 crores to the defined benefit provident fund plan in Fiscal 2022.
(ii) T he Company’s contribution to defined contribution plan aggregated to `78.79 crores and `77.89 crores for the years ended March 31, 2021
and 2020, respectively.
244 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 214 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
48. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
T he financial statements include the Company’s proportionate share of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure in its two Joint Operations, namely Tata Cummins Private Limited and Fiat India Automobile Private Limited. Below are supplementary details of Tata Motors Limited on
standalone basis excluding interest in the aforesaid two Joint Operations:
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
I. ASSETS
(1) NON-CURRENT ASSETS
(a) Property, plant and equipment 17,143.04 16,778.66 (b) Capital work-in-progress 1,324.21 1,626.53 ( c) Right of use assets 979.48 724.08 (d) Other intangible assets 6,156.56 5,284.19 (e) Intangible assets under development 1,604.23 2,738.02 (f) Investments in subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associates 16,804.30 16,839.33 (g) Financial assets (i) Investments 967.65 548.57 (ii) Loans and advances 125.74 137.93 (iii) Other financial assets 1,606.19 1,490.38 (h) Non-current tax assets (net) 651.91 654.55 (i) Other non-current assets 836.77 1,056.77 48,200.08 47,879.01
(2) CURRENT ASSETS
(a) Inventories 3,911.75 3,211.11 (b) Financial assets (i) Investments 1,470.41 885.31 (ii) Trade receivables 1,778.19 1,851.09 (iii) Cash and cash equivalents 1,666.16 1,815.32 (iv) Bank balances other than (iii) above 1,951.53 1,338.70 (v) Loans and advances 181.26 216.49 (vi) Other financial assets 1,644.11 1,379.39 ( c) Assets classified as held-for-sale 220.80 191.07 (d) Other current assets 1,051.53 1,241.50 13,875.74 12,129.98
TOTAL ASSETS 62,075.82 60,008.99
II. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
(a) Equity share capital 765.81 719.54 (b) Other equity 17,231.97 16,908.03 17,997.78 17,627.57
LIABILITIES
(1) NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
(a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 15,805.70 14,161.58 (ii) Lease liabilities 806.93 586.10 (iii) Other financial liabilities 646.08 779.56 (b) Provisions 1,316.38 1,698.92 ( c) Other non-current liabilities 485.21 186.11 19,060.30 17,412.27
(2) CURRENT LIABILITIES
(a) Financial liabilities (i) Borrowings 2,486.36 6,014.40 (ii) Lease liabilities 107.81 82.47 (iii) Trade payables (a) Total outstanding dues of micro and small enterprises 142.29 94.57 (b) Total outstanding dues of creditors other than micro and small enterprises 7,079.42 7,558.54 (iv) Acceptances 7,873.12 2,741.69 (v) Other financial liabilities 3,955.20 5,731.13 (b) Provisions 1,166.36 1,429.44 ( c) Current tax liabilities (net) 12.57 12.57 (d) Other current liabilities 2,194.61 1,304.34 25,017.74 24,969.15
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 62,075.82 60,008.99
Resilience and Rebound | 245

--- Page 215 ---
Standalone
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
B. Statement of Profit and Loss (` in crores) Year ended March Year ended March Particulars 31, 2021 31, 2020 Revenue from operations Revenue 46,065.61 42,524.46 Other operating revenue 471.00 438.57 I. Total revenue from operations 46,536.61 42,963.03 II. Other Income 558.34 1,168.59 III. Total Income (I+II) 47,094.95 44,131.62 IV. Expenses (a) Cost of materials consumed 28,493.12 24,758.46 (b) Purchases of products for sale 7,518.05 6,912.97 ( c) Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale (108.48) 760.04 (d) Employee benefits expense 3,987.72 4,156.75 (e) Finance costs 2,288.61 1,906.12 (f) Foreign exchange loss (net) 29.02 193.54 (g) Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,325.80 3,122.60 (h) Product development/Engineering expenses 907.44 829.58 (i) Other expenses 5,612.48 7,455.40 (j) Amount transferred to capital and other accounts (817.53) (1,158.83) Total Expenses (IV) 51,239.38 48,936.63 V. Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV) (4,144.43) (4,805.01) VI. Exceptional items (a) Employee separation cost 215.97 0.33 (b) Write off/provision (reversal) for tangible/intangible assets (including under - (73.03) development) ( c) Provision/(reversal) for loan given to/investment and cost of closure in subsidiary 123.36 385.62 companies/joint venture (net) (d) Impairment losses/(reversal) in passenger vehicle business (1,182.41) 1,418.64 (e) Provision/(reversal) for Onerous Contracts and related supplier claims (549.00) 777.00 VII. Profit/(loss) before tax (V-VI) (2,752.35) (7,313.57) VIII.Tax expense/(credit) (net) (a) Current tax (including Minimum Alternate Tax) - 7.51 (b) Deferred tax (65.28) 132.90 Total tax expense (65.28) 140.41 IX. Profit/(loss) for the year from continuing operations (VII-VIII) (2,687.07) (7,453.98)
X. Other comprehensive income/(loss):
(A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss:
XII. Earnings/(loss) per share (EPS)
(a) Ordinary shares:
(ii) Diluted ` (7.39) (21.54)
(b) ‘A’ Ordinary shares:
246 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 216 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Resilience and Rebound | 247
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
FO
TRAP
GNIMROF
SETON
1202 ,13
HCRAM
DEDNE
RAEY
EHT
ROF
YTIUQE
NI
SEGNAHC
FO
TNEMETATS
.C
latipaC erahS ytiuqE )i )serorc ni `( erahS ytiuqE sralucitraP latipaC 22.976 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 62.64 serahs fo eussi morf sdeecorP 84.527 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB ytiuqE rehtO )ii )serorc ni `(
)ICO(
ytiuqe fo stnenopmoc rehtO sgninrae deniateR latipaC evreser yenoM erahS no( erutnebeD latipaC deviecer rehto latoT fo tsoC ytiuqE desab seitiruceS gnigdeH elbatubirtsidnU lareneG /)regrem noitpmeder noitpmeder tsniaga sralucitraP ytiuqe gnigdeh stnemurtsni elbatubirtsiD stnemyap muimerp evreser )101
SA
dnI( evreseR fo elas( evreser evreser erahS evreser
ICO
hguorht evreser )ssenisub stnarraW )ten( 30.809,61 )97.24( )55.861( )00.65( )77.539,8( 30.726 38.627,1 )73.953( 48.830,1 82.2 05.768 41.31 98.491,22 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB )70.786,2( - - - )70.786,2( - - - - - - - - raey eht rof ssoL 05.634 99.14 83.76 60.843 )39.02( - - - - - - - - / emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO raey eht rof )ssol( )75.052,2( 99.14 83.76 60.843 )00.807,2( - - - - - - - - /emocni evisneherpmoc latoT raey eht rof )ssol( 40.9 - - - - - - - - - 40.9 - stnemyap desab-erahS 42.655,2 - - - - - - - - )05.768( - 47.324,3 ot tnausrup serahs fo eussI noisrevnoc/tnemtolla laitnereferp stnarraw erahs fo - - - 63.4 )63.4( - - - - - - - - stnemtsevni no niag desilaeR rehtO hguorht eulav riaf ta dleh emocni evisneherpmoc 22.9 - - - - - - 22.9 - - - - - yraidisbus a ot ssenisub fo elaS ])iv( 94 eton refer[ ynapmoc - - - - 04.431 - - - )04.431( - - - - erutnebed morf refsnarT evreser noitpmeder 79.132,71 )08.0( )71.101( 24.692 )37.315,11( 30.726 38.627,1 )51.053( 44.409 82.2 - 81.22 36.816,52 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB

--- Page 217 ---
Standalone 248 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21
STNEMETATS
LAICNANIF
FO
TRAP
GNIMROF
SETON
0202 ,13
HCRAM
DEDNE
DOIREP
EHT
ROF
YTIUQE
NI
SEGNAHC
FO
TNEMETATS
.D
latipaC erahS ytiuqE )i )serorc ni `( erahS ytiuqE sralucitraP latipaC 22.976 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 23.04 serahs fo eussi morf sdeecorP 45.917 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB ytiuqE rehtO )ii )serorc ni `(
)ICO(
ytiuqe fo stnenopmoc rehtO sgninrae deniateR yenoM latipaC erahS latoT erutnebeD latipaC deviecer fo tsoC ytiuqE evreser desab seitiruceS rehto gnigdeH elbatubirtsidnU noitpmeder noitpmeder tsniaga sralucitraP gnigdeH stnemurtsni elbatubirtsiD no( tnemyap muimerp ytiuqe evreser )101
SA
dnI( evreser evreser erahS evreser
ICO
hguorht )regrem evreser stnarraW 72.978,02 54.6 )04.62( 62.26 17.852 30.726 )73.953( 49.580,1 82.2 - 44.8 39.312,91 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB )89.354,7( - - - )89.354,7( - - - - - - - raey eht rof tiforP )24.073( )42.94( )51.241( )62.811( )77.06( - - - - - - - )ssol(/ emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO raey eht rof )04.428,7( )42.94( )51.241( )62.811( )57.415,7( - - - - - - - )ssol(/emocni evisneherpmoc latoT raey eht rof 07.4 - - - - - - - - - 07.4 - stnemyap desab-erahS 05.768 - - - - - - - - 05.768 - stnarraw erahS fo eussI 69.089,2 - - - - - - - - - - 69.089,2 ot tnausrup serahs fo eussI eussi fo ten( tnemtolla laitnereferp dna )serorc 80.3` fo sesnepxe ni dleh serahs fo eussi morf sdeecorp ecnayeba - - - - 01.74 - - )01.74( - - - - noitpmeder erutnebed morf refsnarT evreser 30.809,61 )97.24( )55.861( )00.65( )49.802,7( 30.726 )73.953( 48.830,1 82.2 05.768 41.31 98.491,22 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB

--- Page 218 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
NOTES FORMING PART OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
49. OTHER NOTES:
determined to the extent such parties have been identified on the basis of information available with the Company. The amount of
principal and interest outstanding during the year is given below :
ii) The Board of Directors has, at its meeting held on July 31, 2020, approved (subject to the requisite regulatory and other approvals) a Scheme
of Arrangement between Tata Motors Limited and TML Business Analytics Services Limited (Transferee Company) for:
a) Transfer of the PV Undertaking of the Company as a going concern, on a slump sale basis as defined under Section 2(42C) of the
Income-tax Act, 1961, to the Transferee Company for a lump sum consideration of `9,417.00 crores through issuance of equity shares;
b) Reduction of its share capital without extinguishing or reducing its liability on any of its shares by writing down a portion of its securities
premium account to the extent of `11,173.59 crores, with a corresponding adjustment to the accumulated losses of the Company.
The Scheme of Arrangement has been filed with National Company Law Tribunal for approval.
foreseeable losses. At the year end, the Company has reviewed and ensured that adequate provision as required under any law/accounting
standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in books of account.
(iv) T he Company’s certain assets related to defence business are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under Ind AS 105.
The transaction has been completed in April 2021.
`10.30 crores. The difference between the consideration paid and net assets of GDC business of `9.22 crores, has been credited to Capital
reserve (on merger/sale of business).
certain closing conditions to be complied by both Parties. On completion of the transaction, TMML will become a wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company.
will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified and will give appropriate impact in its financial statements in the
period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAW6929
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 Resilience and Rebound | 249

--- Page 219 ---
Consolidated
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
To the Members of Tata Motors Limited under those SAs are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for
Report on the Audit of Consolidated Financial Statements the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report.
comprehensive income), consolidated statement of changes in equity and below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion on the
consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended, and notes to consolidated financial statements.
explanations given to us, and based on the consideration of reports of other supply chains / consumer demand / financial markets /commodity prices /
auditors on separate financial statements of such subsidiaries, associates, personnel available for work.
in equity and consolidated cash flows for the year then ended. of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
1) JLR Group Going concern, as reported by the component auditor of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (hereinafter referred to as JLR Group).
Group has formed a judgement that it is appropriate to and covenant thresholds indicated by the JLR Group’s financial forecasts taking account of severe, but plausible, adverse
adopt the going concern basis of preparation for the JLR effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively.
Group. Their procedures also included:
That judgement is based on an evaluation of the inherent • Assessment of management’s process: Evaluated management’s process to produce forecasts, including the
risks to the JLR Group’s business model, in particular, assessment of internal and external factors used to determine the severe but plausible downward scenarios adopted.
risks associated with the global coronavirus pandemic, the • Funding assessment: Evaluated JLR Group’s financing facilities to ensure that the available terms and covenants
impact of Brexit and how those risks might affect the JLR associated with these facilities, were completely and accurately reflected in the cash flow forecasts;
The risks most likely to adversely affect the JLR Group’s financial commitments as they fall due, were realistic, achievable and consistent with the external environment and other
available financial resources over this period were: matters identified in the audit.
• The impact of coronavirus lockdowns and related The key assumptions include sales volumes together with fixed and variable costs.
potential economic damage on customer demand in They inspected the timing of cash outflows related to the Reimagine restructuring and ensured that they were
JLR Group’s key markets. completely and accurately incorporated into the cash flow forecasts.
• The impact on JLR Group’s supply chain and • Historical comparisons: Evaluated the historical cash flow forecasting accuracy of JLR Group by comparing historical
consequent production capability from semiconductor cash flows to actual results reported, as well as assessing the accuracy of key assumptions previously applied;
shortages, coronavirus related supply shortages and • Benchmarking assumptions: Assessed appropriateness of JLR Group’s key assumptions used in the cash flow forecasts,
supplier continuity risks. by benchmarking them to externally derived data, with particular focus on sales volumes;
The risk for our audit is whether or not those risks are such • Sensitivity analysis: Considered sensitivities over the key assumptions underlying the JLR Group’s cash flow forecasts
that they amount to a material uncertainty that may cast and their impact on the level of available financial resources;
significant doubt about the ability to continue as a going • Sector experience – The component audit team used their industry specialists to challenge the key assumptions made
concern. Had they been such, then that fact would have by the directors in their forecast cash flows;
been required to be disclosed. • Assessing transparency – The component audit team assessed the completeness and accuracy of the matters disclosed
(Refer note 2(e) of the consolidated financial statements) in the going concern disclosure by considering whether it is consistent with their knowledge of the business.
250 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 220 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
2) Assessment of indicators of impairment reversal of plant and equipment and intangible assets of the passenger vehicles cash generating unit.
triggers for reversal of previously recognized impairment sufficient appropriate audit evidence
loss in respect of its passenger vehicle cash generating unit Test of Controls:
(CGU). In making this determination, the Holding Company • We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the key control over the assessment of indicators of
considers both internal and external sources of information impairment reversal.
to determine whether there is an indicator of impairment Test of Details:
reversal and, accordingly, whether the recoverable amount • We assessed internal and external sources of information used by the Holding Company to determine that there are
of the CGU needs to be estimated. indicators of impairment reversal.
An impairment loss accounted in earlier years is reversed • In performing the above assessment we have examined:
if the recoverable amount is higher than the carrying — The growth in total industry volume in current year and growth estimates as per industry forecasts.
value. The recoverable amount is determined based on — The increase in share price of the Holding Company during the current year and the market capitalisation
the higher of value in use (VIU) and fair value less costs attributable to the passenger vehicles CGU.
of to sell (FVLCS). As at 31 March 2021, the Holding — The improvement in sales multiple as per analyst report as compared to previous year.
Company determined the recoverable amount of this CGU — The growth in the sales volume of the Holding Company in current year.
to be ` 14,169 crores, being the FVLCS, and reversed the — The increase in market share of the Holding Company in current year as compared to previous year.
impairment loss. After reversal of the impairment loss, the — The improvement in the contribution margin earned by the Holding Company.
carrying value of net assets for this CGU was ` 7,750 crores • We also assessed changes in the estimates used to determine the CGU’s recoverable amount.
This assessment of indicators of impairment reversal is used in selection of comparable companies and assessing the CGU’s enterprise value (i.e. FVLCS) based on comparable
considered to be a key audit matter due to the significant companies’ enterprise value to sales multiple.
judgment required to assess the internal and external • We performed a sensitivity analysis over the enterprise value to sales multiple to assess the impact on the recoverable
sources of information. amount.
3) Impairment of property plant and equipment, intangible, and right-of-use non-current assets, as reported by the component auditor of JLR Group
Forecast based assessment The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component (JLR Group) included:
There is a risk that the carrying value of property, plant • Historical accuracy: Evaluated historical forecasting accuracy of discounted cash flow forecasts, including key
and equipment (PPE), intangible assets, and right-of- assumptions, by comparing them to the actual results;
amount. Where a review for impairment, or reversal of forecasts by comparing those, where appropriate, to historical trends in terminal value variable profit and terminal value
impairment, is conducted, the recoverable amount is capital expenditure;
The JLR Group holds a significant amount of property,
key assumption of sales volumes to externally derived data;
• Compared JLR Group’s discount rate and long-term growth rate to external benchmark data and comparative companies
sheet.
and reperformed the discount rate calculation using the Capital Asset Pricing Model with the assistance of their valuation
Property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and specialists;
right of use assets are at risk of being impaired as cash • Sensitivity analysis: Performed a sensitivity analysis on key assumptions, generating an independent range for
flow forecasts may contain optimistic expectations of comparison, taking account of the JLR Group’s Reimagine strategy;
expenditure. The JLR Group has also announced its JLR Group, by reference to the overall market capitalization of the Holding Company and compared to the estimated
‘Reimagine’ Strategy which has led to the termination recoverable amount of the cash generating unit;
of the mid Modular Longitudinal Architecture (‘MLA’) • Impairment reversal: Assessed whether the JLR Group’s estimated value in use was indicative of an impairment reversal.
The effects of these matters is that as part of risk
amount compared to the cash generating unit carrying value to nil.
the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and
possibly many times that amount.
Resilience and Rebound | 251

--- Page 221 ---
Consolidated 4) Capitalisation of product engineering costs, as reported by the component auditor of JLR Group Subjective judgement
The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component (JLR Group) included:
determining whether the nature of product engineering key input into the directors’ assessment of whether the future economic benefit of development projects is probable and
costs satisfy the criteria for capitalization to “Intangible the control over the JLR Group’s judgements as to whether costs are considered directly attributable;
should commence. The judgement of when capitalization costs against both the accounting standards and their own experience or practical application of these standards in other
should commence consists of a number of judgements companies;
regarding the satisfaction of Ind AS 38 capitalisation criteria, • Benchmarking assumptions: For a sample of the volume assumptions contained in the capitalized projects, compared
and a key judgement is assessing whether development the JLR Group’s assessment of economic viability to externally derived data;
The consolidated financial statements disclose that had the assessed the JLR Group’s application of appropriate downside sensitivities in establishing whether future economic
value of central overheads not been classified as directly benefit is considered probable;
attributable it would have reduced the amount capitalized • Historical comparison: Performed a retrospective review of revenue and material cost per vehicle on completed
by ` 806.12 crores (31 March 2020 – ` 1,094.35 crores). development projects to assess previous economic viability assumptions against the actual outturn.
Considered whether the Reimagine asset impairments were evidence of fraud or error at the time of initial capitalisation.
(Refer note 2 (q) & 6 of the consolidated financial • Assessing transparency: Assessed the adequacy of the JLR Group’s disclosures in respect of key judgements made
statements) relating to the nature of the costs capitalised and the point at which capitalisation commences.
5) Valuation of defined benefit plan obligations, as reported by the component auditor of JLR Group
Subjective valuation The audit procedures applied by the auditor of the component (JLR Group) included:
being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality / annual validation of the assumptions used by its actuarial expert. Tested the controls operating over selection and
life expectancy, used to value the JLR Group’s pension monitoring of its actuarial expert for competence and objectivity;
a significant effect on the JLR Group’s net defined benefit applied to the valuation of the liabilities, being the discount rate, inflation rate and mortality/ life expectancy against
plan asset/(obligation) . The risk is that these assumptions externally derived data;
are inappropriate resulting in an inappropriate valuation of • Assessing transparency: Considered the adequacy of the disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the JLR Group’s net
plan obligations. defined benefit plan asset/(obligation) to these assumptions.
amount. The consolidated financial statements disclose the
sensitivity estimated by the JLR group.
252 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 222 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) 6) Impairment of loans to customers of the Group’s vehicle financing business under its subsidiary TMF Holdings Limited (TMF Group)
Subjective estimate Our key audit procedures included:
loan losses are determined using expected credit loss
We performed end to end process walkthroughs to identify the key systems, applications and controls used in ECL processes.
We tested the relevant manual (including spreadsheet controls), general IT and application controls over key systems used
instruments involves significant judgement and estimates.
in ECL process.
The key areas where we identified greater levels of
management judgement and therefore increased levels of Key aspects of our controls testing involved the following:
audit focus in the TMF Group’s estimation of ECLs are:
• Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the key controls over the completeness and accuracy of the key inputs,
- Data inputs - The application of ECL model requires data and assumptions into the Ind AS 109 impairment models.
completeness and accuracy of the data that has been
Bank of India guidance.
used to create assumptions in the model.
• Testing the design and operating effectiveness of the key controls over the application of the staging criteria.
are used to estimate ECL which involves determining • Testing key controls relating to selection and implementation of material macro-economic variables and the controls
Probabilities of Default (“PD”), Loss Given Default over the scenario selection and application of probability weights.
(“LGD”), and Exposures at Default (“EAD”). The PD and
the LGD are the key drivers of estimation complexity • Testing management’s controls over authorisation and calculation of post model adjustments and management overlays.
in ECL and as a result are considered the most
• Testing management’s controls on compliance with Ind AS 109 disclosures related to ECL.
modelling approach. • Testing key controls operating over the information technology system in relation to loan impairment including system
access and system change management, program development and computer operations.
- Economic scenarios – Ind AS 109 requires the TMF
Group to measure ECLs on an unbiased forward- Involvement of specialists - we involved financial risk modelling specialists for the following:
conditions. Significant management judgement is
assumptions used (including management overlays).
and the probability weights applied to them especially • For models which were changed or updated during the year, evaluating whether the changes were appropriate by
when considering the current uncertain economic assessing the updated model methodology.
environment arising from COVID-19.
• For corporate loans, assessing appropriateness of management’s credit grading model.
driven ECL results are recorded by management
COVID-19 on ECL determination.
models. They represent approximately 20.46 % of ECL
Key aspects of our testing included:
inherently uncertain and significant management • Sample testing over key inputs, data and assumptions impacting ECL calculations to assess the completeness, accuracy
judgement is involved in estimating these amounts and relevance of data and reasonableness of economic forecasts, weights, and model assumptions applied.
especially in relation to economic uncertainty as a
• Model calculations testing through re-performance, where possible.
result of COVID-19.
estimates of impairment loss allowance are subject to
inspecting the calculation methodology and tracing a sample of the data used back to source data.
will impact the TMF Group’s current estimate of impairment exists when determining ECL. In addition, we assessed whether the disclosure of the key judgements and assumptions
loss allowances is dependent on future developments, made was sufficiently clear.
of impairment allowance on the financial statements, we
have considered this as a key audit matter.
Ind AS 109 are key to explaining the key judgements and
material inputs to the Ind AS 109 ECL results.
Resilience and Rebound | 253

--- Page 223 ---
Consolidated Other Information assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
The Holding Company’s management and Board of Directors are with SAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
does not include the financial statements and our auditors’ report to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
thereon. consolidated financial statements.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover As part of an audit in accordance with SAs, we exercise professional
the other information and we do not express any form of assurance judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit.
conclusion thereon. We also:
other auditors, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
to report in this regard.
financial statements in term of the requirements of the Act that give and the operating effectiveness of such controls based on our
a true and fair view of the consolidated state of affairs, consolidated audit.
associates and joint ventures and joint operations in accordance with the
made by the Management and Board of Directors.
that give a true and fair view and are free from material misstatement, and joint ventures and joint operations to cease to continue as a
whether due to fraud or error, which have been used for the purpose of going concern.
• E valuate the overall presentation, structure and content of the
and Directors of the Holding Company, as aforesaid.
Management and Board of Directors of the companies included in the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair
Group and of its associates, joint ventures and joint operations are presentation.
operations to express an opinion on the consolidated financial
to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s
titled ‘Other Matters’ in this audit report.
254 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 224 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) We believe that the audit evidence obtained by us along with the opinion on the consolidated financial statements, in so far as it consideration of audit reports of the other auditors referred to in the relates to the amounts and disclosures included in respect of these Other Matters paragraph below, is sufficient and appropriate to provide subsidiaries, step down subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, a basis for our audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements. and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid subsidiaries, step down We communicate with those charged with governance of the Holding subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates is based solely on the Company and such other entities included in the consolidated financial
audit reports of the other auditors.
Company’s Management has converted the financial statements of
and where applicable, related safeguards.
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. prepared by the Management of the Holding Company and audited
by us.
this joint operation, and our report in terms of sub-section (3) of and one joint venture, whose financial statements / financial
Section 143 of the Act, in so far as it relates to the aforesaid joint information have not been audited by us or by other auditors.
date, as considered in the consolidated financial statements, which
are not material to the Group.
ventures, whose financial statements / financial information and the financial statements / financial information certified by the
have been audited by their respective independent auditors. The Management.
Resilience and Rebound | 255

--- Page 225 ---
Consolidated Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements it relates to the Group, its associates and joint ventures and
A. A s required by Section 143(3) of the Act, based on our audit and joint operations.
by other auditors, as noted in the ‘Other Matters’ paragraph, we and joint ventures and joint operations incorporated in India
report, to the extent applicable, that: during the year ended 31 March 2021.
b) I n our opinion, proper books of account as required by they do not pertain to the financial year ended 31 March
law relating to preparation of the aforesaid consolidated 2021.
financial statements have been kept so far as it appears from C. W ith respect to the matter to be included in the Auditors’ report
our examination of those books and the reports of the other under section 197(16):
auditors.
controls with reference to financial statements of the Holding the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, in accordance with the
Company, its subsidiary companies, associate companies provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
details under Section 197(16) which are required to be commented upon
i. T he consolidated financial statements disclose the by us.
256 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 226 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Annexure A to the Independent Auditors’ Report on the Consolidated Financial Statements of Tata Motors Limited for the year ended 31 March 2021 Report on the Internal Financial Controls with reference to the aforesaid on the assessed risk. The procedures selected depend on the auditors’ judgment, Consolidated Financial Statements under Clause (i) of Sub-section 3 of Section 143 including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated
of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”) financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
Opinion is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion on the internal
In conjunction with our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the Company financial controls with reference to consolidated financial statements.
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
In our opinion, the Holding Company and such companies incorporated in India which external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Management’s Responsibility for Internal Financial Controls acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material
The respective Company’s management and the Board of Directors are responsible effect on the financial statements.
under the Companies Act, 2013 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”). financial statements may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Those Standards and the Guidance Note require that we comply with ethical solely on the corresponding reports of the auditors of such companies incorporated
requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance in India. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.
Resilience and Rebound | 257

--- Page 227 ---
Consolidated Consolidated Balance Sheet (` in crores) As at March 31, As at March 31, Notes 2021 2020
I. ASSETS
(1) Non-current assets (a) Property, plant and equipment 3 (a) 79,640.05 77,882.83 (b) Capital work-in-progress 3 (b) 8,377.14 8,599.56 ( c) Right of use assets 4 6,490.66 6,275.34 (d) Goodwill 5 803.72 777.06 (e) Other intangible assets 6 (a) 51,773.18 42,171.91 (f) Intangible assets under development 6 (b) 12,586.79 27,022.73 (g) Investment in equity accounted investees 9 4,200.79 4,418.89
(h) Financial assets:
(a) Inventories 14 36,088.59 37,456.88
(b) Financial assets:
146,887.64 119,587.25
TOTAL ASSETS 343,125.80 322,121.26
II. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity (a) Equity share capital 23 765.81 719.54 (b) Other equity 24 54,480.91 62,358.99 Equity attributable to owners of Tata Motors Ltd 55,246.72 63,078.53 Non-controlling interests 1,573.49 813.56 56,820.21 63,892.09 Liabilities (1) Non-current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities:
(2) Current liabilities
(a) Financial liabilities:
Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAX9949
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 258 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 228 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Consolidated Statement of Profit and Loss (` in crores) Year ended March Year ended March Notes 31, 2021 31, 2020 I. Revenue from operations 33 (a) Revenue 246,972.17 258,594.36 (b) Other Operating Revenues 2,822.58 2,473.61 Total revenue from operations 249,794.75 261,067.97 II. Other income (includes Government grants) 34 2,643.19 2,973.15 III. Total Income (I+II) 252,437.94 264,041.12
IV. Expenses:
V. Profit/ (Loss) before exceptional items and tax (III-IV) 3,286.74 (7,708.54)
VI. Exceptional Items:
XI. Profit/(loss) for the year (IX+X) (13,395.10) (11,975.23)
Attributable to:
(b) Non-controlling interests 56.29 95.62
XII. Other comprehensive income/(loss):
(A) (i) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
(ii) Income tax (expense)/credit relating to items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 1,369.11 (1,375.55)
(B) (i) Items that will be reclassified to profit or loss:
Total other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (net of tax) 2,919.34 11,504.47
Attributable to:
XIII.Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year (net of tax) (XI+XII) (10,475.76) (470.76)
Attributable to:
XIV.Earnings per equity share (EPS) 45
(a) Ordinary shares (face value of `2 each):
(ii) Diluted EPS ` (36.99) (34.88)
(b) ‘A’ Ordinary shares (face value of `2 each):
Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAX9949
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 Resilience and Rebound | 259

--- Page 229 ---
Consolidated Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Cash flows from operating activities:
Profit/(Loss) for the year (13,395.10) (11,975.23)
Adjustments for:
Net cash from operating activities 29,000.51 26,632.94
Cash flows from investing activities:
260 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 230 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Cash flows from financing activities:
Cash and cash equivalents as at March 31, (closing balance) 31,700.01 18,467.80
Non-cash transactions:
Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAX9949
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 Resilience and Rebound | 261

--- Page 231 ---
Consolidated 262 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 ytiuqE ni segnahC fo tnemetatS detadilosnoC
LATIPAC
ERAHS YTIUQE .A
)serorc ni `( sralucitraP 45.917 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 72.64 serahs fo ecnaussi morf sdeecorP 18.567 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB YTIUQE REHTO .B )serorc ni `( ytiuqe fo stnenopmoc rehtO sevreseR elbatubirttA ytiuqE tbeD rof evreseR -noN -erahS rehto latoT fo srenwO ot ycnerruC fo tsoC stnemurtsni stnemurtsni denraE hcraeser erutnebeD latipaC gnillortnoc gnigdeH deniateR latipaC laicepS erahS desab seitiruceS ytiuqe srotoM ataT noitalsnart gnigdeh rehtO hguorht rehtO hguorht sulprus namuh dna noitpmeder noitpmeder stseretni evreseR sgninrae evreseR evreser stnarraW stnemyap muimerP detimiL evreser evreser evisneherpmoC evisneherpmoC evreser ecruoser evreser evreser evreser emocnI emocnI tnempoleved 55.271,36 65.318 99.853,26 07.478,4 )82.312( )09.198,3( )73.77( 36.88 28.288,53 02.461,1 56.54 51.094 47.002 48.830,1 82.2 05.768 41.31 98.278,12 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalab gninepO )01.593,31( 92.65 )93.154,31( - - - - - )93.154,31( - - - - - - - - - raey eht rof )ssoL(/tiforP 43.919,2 51.91 91.009,2 15.258,3 34.132 66.641,4 16.204 51.861 )71.109,5( - - - - - - - - - raey eht rof )ssol(/ emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO )67.574,01( 44.57 )02.155,01( 15.258,3 34.132 66.641,4 16.204 51.861 )65.253,91( - - - - - - - - - raey eht rof )ssol(/emocni evisneherpmoc latoT 23.501 - 23.501 - 37.84 95.65 - - - - - - - - - - - - yrotnevni ni dezingocer stnuomA 42.655,2 - 42.655,2 - - - - - - - - - - - - )05.768( - 47.324,3 stnarraw erahs fo noisrevnoc ot tnausrup serahs fo eussI - - - - - - )63.4( - 63.4 - - - - - - - - - rehtO hguorht eulav riaf ta dleh stnemtsevni no niag desilaeR emocni evisneherpmoc 25.2 - 25.2 25.2 yraidisbuS fo noitisiuqcA )57.82( )57.82( - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ytironiM ot noitubirtsiD 00.317 00.317 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - yraidisbus a yb ytiuqe sa deifissalc tnemurtsni lauteprep fo eussI 42.0 42.0 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - tseretni gnillortnoc-non ot deussi serahS 40.9 - 40.9 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 40.9 - stnemyap desab erahS - - - - - - - - 96.54 - - 17.88 - )04.431( - - - - sgninrae deniater ot/)morf( refsnarT 04.450,65 94.375,1 19.084,45 12.727,8 88.66 53.113 88.023 87.652 38.285,61 02.461,1 56.54 68.875 47.002 44.409 82.2 - 81.22 36.692,52 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB :etoN tseretni nopuoc a gniraeb serorc 00.317` fo seitiruces lauteprep deussi ynapmoC eht fo yraidisbus a ,detimiL ecnaniF srotoM ataT ,1202 ,13 hcraM dedne raey laicnanif eht gniruD ta dednepsus ro dellecnac eb yam nopuoc yna fo tnemyap ehT .sraey 01 retfa dellac ton era seitiruces eht fi noisivorp pu pets a htiw , munna rep %05.01 ot %55.9 morf gnignar etar elbatubirtta tnuoma yna dna stnemurtsni ytiuqe sa seitiruces eseht detnuocca sah ynapmoC eht ,ylgnidroccA .detimiL ecnaniF srotoM ataT fo srotceriD fo draoB eht fo noitercsid eht .tseretni gnillortnoc-non sa detneserp neeb evah seitiruces lauteprep eseht fo srotsevni ot stnemetats laicnanif detadilosnoc ot seton gniynapmocca eeS draoB eht fo flaheb no dna roF dehcatta troper ruo fo smret nI PLL .oC & R S B roF ]57372470
:NID[
KEHCSTUB
RETNEUG
]36812100
:NID[
NARAKESARDNAHC
N
stnatnuoccA deretrahC rotceriD gniganaM dna
OEC
namriahC
220001-W/W842101
:oN noitartsigeR s’mriF airtsuA -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP
IJALAB
B
P
]80833000
:NID[
RAKRADNAHB
AKIDEV
INATSAV ZARIHS
reciffO laicnaniF feihC puorG rotceriD rentraP iabmuM -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP 433301 .oN pihsrebmeM 9499XAAAAA43330112 :NIDU ]7053
:SCF[
ANHTES
K
H
enuP -ecalP yraterceS ynapmoC iabmuM -ecalP 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD

--- Page 232 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Resilience and Rebound | 263 ytiuqE ni segnahC fo tnemetatS detadilosnoC
LATIPAC
ERAHS
YTIUQE .A
)serorc ni `( sralucitraP 22.976 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB 23.04 serahs fo ecnaussi morf sdeecorP 45.917 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB
YTIUQE
REHTO .B
)serorc ni `( ytiuqe fo stnenopmoc rehtO sevreseR elbatubirttA ytiuqE tbeD rof evreseR latoT -noN fo srenwO ot ycnerruC fo tsoC stnemurtsni stnemurtsni denraE hcraeser erutnebeD latipaC desab-erahS rehto gnillortnoc gnigdeH deniateR latipaC laicepS erahS seitiruceS sralucitraP srotoM ataT noitalsnart gnigdeh rehtO hguorht rehtO hguorht sulprus namuh dna noitpmeder noitpmeder stnemyap ytiuqe stseretni evreseR sgninrae evreseR evreser stnarraW muimerP detimiL evreser evreser evisneherpmoC evisneherpmoC evreser ecruoser evreser evreser evreser emocnI emocnI tnempoleved 04.320,06 60.325 43.005,95 93.255,2 )08.07( )26.206,5( 80.26 - 82.917,04 02.461,1 56.54 38.044 47.002 49.580,1 82.2 - 44.8 39.198,81 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalaB )41.691( - )41.691( - - - - - )41.691( - - - - - - - - - 611 SA dnI ot noitisnart fo tceffE 62.728,95 60.325 02.403,95 93.255,2 )08.07( )26.206,5( 80.26 - 41.325,04 02.461,1 56.54 38.044 47.002 49.580,1 82.2 - 44.8 39.198,81 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa ecnalab gninepo detsujdA )32.579,11( 26.59 )58.070,21( - - - - - )58.070,21( - - - - - - - - - raey eht rof ssoL 74.405,11 05.21 79.194,11 13.223,2 )56.071( 83.859,1 )54.931( 36.88 57.234,7 - - - - - - - - - raey eht rof )ssol(/ emocni evisneherpmoc rehtO )67.074( 21.801 )88.875( 13.223,2 )56.071( 83.859,1 )54.931( 36.88 )01.836,4( - - - - - - - - - raey eht rof )ssol(/emocni evisneherpmoc latoT )94.912( - )94.912( - 71.82 )66.742( - - - - - - - - - - - - yrotnevni ni dezingocer stnuomA 69.089,2 - 69.089,2 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - 69.089,2 ten( tnemtolla laitnereferp ot tnausrup serahs fo eussI )serorc 80.3` fo sesnepxe eussi fo 05.768 - 05.768 - - - - - - - - - - - - 05.768 - - stnarraw erahS fo eussI )51.22( )51.22( - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ytironim fo noitisiuqcA 00.052 00.052 - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - doirep eht gnirud segnahc ytironiM )74.54( )74.54( - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - )xat dnedivid gnidulcni( diap dnediviD 07.4 - 07.4 - - - - - - - - - - - - - 07.4 - stnemyap desab erahS - - - - - - - - 01.74 - - - - )01.74( - - - - evreser noitpmeder erutnebed morf refsnarT - - - - - - - - )23.94( - - 23.94 - - - - - - sgninrae deniater ot/)morf( refsnarT 55.271,36 65.318 99.853,26 07.478,4 )82.312( )09.198,3( )73.77( 36.88 28.288,53 02.461,1 56.54 51.094 47.002 48.830,1 82.2 05.768 41.31 98.278,12 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa ecnalaB stnemetats laicnanif detadilosnoc ot seton gniynapmocca eeS draoB eht fo flaheb no dna roF dehcatta troper ruo fo smret nI PLL .oC & R S B roF ]57372470
:NID[
KEHCSTUB
RETNEUG
]36812100
:NID[
NARAKESARDNAHC
N
stnatnuoccA deretrahC rotceriD gniganaM dna
OEC
namriahC
220001-W/W842101
:oN noitartsigeR s’mriF airtsuA -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP
IJALAB
B
P
]80833000
:NID[
RAKRADNAHB
AKIDEV
INATSAV ZARIHS
reciffO laicnaniF feihC puorG rotceriD rentraP iabmuM -ecalP iabmuM -ecalP 433301 .oN pihsrebmeM
9499XAAAAA43330112
:NIDU
]7053
:SCF[
ANHTES
K
H
enuP -ecalP yraterceS ynapmoC iabmuM -ecalP 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD 1202 ,81 yaM :etaD

--- Page 233 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 1. BACKGROUND AND OPERATIONS Non-controlling interests in the net assets (excluding T ata Motors Limited and its subsidiaries and joint operations, goodwill) of consolidated subsidiaries are identified (collectively referred to as “the Company” or “Tata Motors”), separately from the Company’s equity. The interest of non- designs, manufactures and sells a wide range of automotive controlling shareholders may be initially measured either at vehicles. The Company provides financing for the vehicles sold fair value or at the non-controlling interests’ proportionate by dealers of the Company in certain markets. The Company also share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net manufactures engines for industrial and marine applications, assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on an aggregates such as axles and transmissions for commercial acquisition-by-acquisition basis. Subsequent to acquisition, vehicles and factory automation equipment, and provides the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the information technology services. amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes T ata Motors Limited is a public limited Company incorporated and in equity. Total comprehensive income is attributed to domiciled in India and has its registered office in Mumbai, India. non-controlling interests even if it results in the non- As at March 31, 2021, Tata Sons Private Limited together with controlling interest having a deficit balance. Changes in the its subsidiaries, owns 46.33% of the Ordinary shares and 7.66% Company’s interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a of ‘A’ Ordinary shares of the Company, and has the ability to loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions. The significantly influence the Company’s operation. carrying amount of the Company’s interests and the non- T he Company’s operations include the Jaguar Land Rover controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in business (referred to as JLR or Jaguar Land Rover). their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests T he consolidated financial statements were approved by the are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or Board of Directors and authorised for issue on May 18, 2021. received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES owners of the Company. When the Company loses control a. Statement of compliance of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated These financial statements have been prepared in as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair value accordance with Ind AS as notified under the Companies of consideration received and the fair value of any retained (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules, 2015 read with interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets Section 133 of the Companies Act, 2013 (“the Act”). (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. Amounts previously recognised b. Basis of preparation in other comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary The consolidated financial statements have been prepared are accounted for (i.e., reclassified to profit or loss) in the on historical cost basis except for certain financial same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or instruments which are measured at fair value at the end of liabilities were disposed of. The fair value of any investment each reporting period as explained in the accounting policies retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control below. is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for c. Basis of consolidation subsequent accounting or, when applicable, the cost on Subsidiaries initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly
The consolidated financial statements include Tata Motors controlled entity.
the investee and ( c) has the ability to affect those returns only when decisions about the relevant activities require the
through its power to direct relevant activities of the investee. unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
liabilities and expenses that it has incurred in relation to the
Inter-company transactions and balances including joint operation.
unrealised profits are eliminated in full on consolidation.
264 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 234 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Joint ventures Purchase consideration in excess of the Company’s interest A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties in the acquiree’s net fair value of identifiable assets,
that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised as goodwill.
as described below. after reassessment of fair value of net assets acquired, in
the Capital Reserve.
significant influence. Significant influence is the power to The Company’s consolidated financial statements have
participate in the financial and operating policy decisions been prepared on a going concern basis.
of the investee. If accounting policies of associates differ the date of these financial statements (the ‘Going Concern
from those adopted by the Group, the accounting policies of Assessment Period’ and the ‘Foreseeable Future’).
financial statements using the equity method of accounting a base case, which has been further sensitised using severe
as described below. but plausible downside scenarios.
that significant influence or joint control commences until recent experience, with some cost savings in line with the
the date that significant influence or joint control ceases. Refocus programme.
further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the management has considered the impact of a repeat of the
Company has incurred constructive or legal obligations or Covid-19 pandemic.
has made payments on behalf of the investee.
Management do not consider more extreme scenarios than
When the Company transacts with an associate or joint the ones assessed to be plausible.
and liabilities that are required to be measured as per the it’s Passenger Vehicles business into a separate subsidiary
applicable standard. through a scheme of arrangement, whichever is earlier.
Resilience and Rebound | 265

--- Page 235 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements In evaluating the forecasts, the Company and JLR have C ovid-19 pandemic has rapidly spread throughout the taken into consideration both the sufficiency of liquidity to world, including India. Governments in India and across meet obligations as they fall due as well as potential impact the world have taken significant measures to curb the on compliance with financial covenants during the forecast spread of the virus including imposing mandatory period. lockdowns and restrictions in activities. Consequently, Company’s manufacturing plants and offices had These forecasts indicate that the Company will have to be closed down / operate under restrictions for a sufficient liquidity to operate and discharge its liabilities considerable period of time during the year and post as they become due, without breaching any relevant year end. Lockdowns / restrictions have impacted covenants, taking into account only cash generated from the Company operationally including on commodity operations and the funding facilities existing on the date of prices, supply chain matters (including semiconductor authorization of these financial statements and as at March supplies), consumer demand and recoveries of loans 31, 2021, including the presently undrawn revolving credit under its vehicle financing business. More recently,
facilities and the support from Tata Sons Limited.
in particular on the automotive industry, the impact
presented. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
266 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 236 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements to reverse the amount of revenue recognised when reward points granted to customers is recognized as any associated uncertainty is subsequently resolved. a deferred income liability and transferred to income
The Company estimates the expected sales incentive when customers redeem their reward points.
obligation is satisfied over a period of time, any amount
market conditions.
being physically transferred to them at a future time. transferred to Trade receivables on actual billing to
In such arrangements it is ensured that the customer customers.
has obtained the ultimate control of the product.
Refund liabilities comprise of obligation towards
There are certain vehicles which are being given to customers to pay for discounts and sales incentives.
is legislative requirement for the Company as an
commencement date at fair value of the leased asset.
costs are recognised as cost of sales at the lease
wishes to own the vehicle as a result.
commencement date.
is recognized as Deferred income liability and (ii) the
loss.
resulting receivable is reasonably assured. operating lease income on time proportionate basis
over date of sale and date of buy back.
Income from sale of maintenance services, telematics
using the effective interest method.
When the Company sells products that are bundled
“incentives”).
treated as a separate performance obligation only if assurance that the Company will comply with the relevant
the service or warranty is optional to the customer conditions and the grant will be received.
that the grants are intended to compensate or, immediately
obligation has been met.
or services. Transaction price allocated towards recognised as income in the period in which the grant is
received.
Resilience and Rebound | 267

--- Page 237 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements i. Cost recognition and the Company sells the finished goods using the
Costs and expenses are recognised when incurred and are components at a loss.
the Company. end of the lease arrangements being typically up to
three years.
A provision is recognised if, as a result of a past event, the 31, 2021. These assessments were performed with
Company has a present legal or constructive obligation that reference to both internal and external market inputs.
iv) Legal and product liability
of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
i) Product warranty expenses
and battery disposal regulations.
complaints The timing of outflows will vary depending reviewed, based on assessments undertaken both by
on when warranty claim will arise, being typically up to management and external experts, such as lawyers.
period is typically up to eight years. The Company also in a different assessment, provisions are adjusted
has back-to-back contractual arrangement with its accordingly.
claim based upon historical levels of recoveries from removal and land clean up. The timing of when these
supplier, adjusted for inflation and applied to the costs will be incurred is not known with certainty.
from a contract are lower than the unavoidable and liabilities are re-measured into the functional currency
costs of meeting its obligations under the contract. at the exchange rate prevailing on the balance sheet date.
from the expected future use of the components capitalized when they are regarded as an adjustment to
interest costs.
268 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 238 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial are not recognised if the Company is able to control the statements, the assets and liabilities of the Company’s timing of the reversal and it is probable that the temporary
foreign operations (having non-INR functional currency) are difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
equity. Exchange differences arising from the translation
changes in value.
included as fully paid equivalents according to the fraction
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred taxes.
items that are recognised outside of profit or loss (whether
dilutive.
combination. In the case of a business combination the the sale of vehicles subject to repurchase arrangements)
tax effect is included in the accounting for the business are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
their respective tax bases, and unutilised business loss and
include vehicles sold subject to repurchase arrangements.
assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that future
over the term of the arrangement.
tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally
use.
Deferred tax liabilities on taxable temporary differences
no specific borrowings have been incurred for the asset.
Resilience and Rebound | 269

--- Page 239 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements over the estimated useful lives of the assets considering Internally generated intangible asset the nature, estimated usage, operating conditions, past Research costs are charged to the consolidated statement
history of replacement, anticipated technological changes, of profit and loss in the year in which they are incurred.
The useful lives and method of deprecation is reviewed at
accumulated impairment, if any.
a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use
asset is ready for its intended use.
disposal. Any gain or loss arising from derecognition of an right to control the use of an identified asset, the Company
item of property, plant and equipment is included in profit or assesses whether:
loss when it is derecognized.
of the date of acquisition where applicable less accumulated has a substantive substation right, then the asset is not
amortisation and accumulated impairment, if any. Intangible identified;
assessment from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective
basis. • The Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.
provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
for what purposes the asset is used.
purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the Company
Type of Asset Estimated useful life has the right to direct the use of the asset if either:
Computer software 1 to 8 years • The Company designed the asset in a way that
Customer related intangibles 20 years predetermines how and for what purposes it will be used.
commencement date. The right- of-use asset is initially
estimates.
270 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 240 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made other assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of carrying at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct amount of each asset in the unit. Goodwill impairment
costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and loss recognised is not reversed in subsequent period.
is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount
useful life of the leased asset.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
of the lease payments that are not paid at commencement which the asset belongs.
liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective
impaired.
future lease payments. iii) Equity accounted investments: Joint ventures
and associates:
measurement of the lease liability, any initial direct cost
increases.
incurred by the Company and estimated dilapidation costs.
reflects current market assessments of the time value
as rental expenses over the tenor of such leases.
risks and rewards are transferred to the lessee. Accordingly, extrapolated beyond five years using estimated long-
lease receivable is recognized as the amount of the fair term growth rates.
value of the leased asset.
are tested for impairment annually at each balance amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately
sheet date, or more frequently when there is an in the consolidated statement of profit and loss.
loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount
of impairment loss recognized in prior years.
Resilience and Rebound | 271

--- Page 241 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements t. Employee benefits by this plan are prospectively entitled to benefits i) Pension plans computed on a basis that ensures that the annual cost J aguar Land Rover operate defined benefit pension of providing the pension benefits would not exceed plans for certain of its subsidiaries, which are 15% of salary. During the year ended March 31, 2015, contracted out of the second state pension scheme the employees covered by this plan were given a
until April 5, 2016. The assets of the plan are held one-time option to exit from the plan prospectively.
economic benefit available from unconditional such subsidiaries have no further obligation beyond
rights to refund from the scheme or reduction in this contribution.
gratuity, a defined benefit retirement plan covering equals 50% of the salary drawn at the time of death or
eligible employees. The plan provides for a lump sum accident or a specified amount, whichever is greater.
while in employment or on termination of employment for the liability for BKY benefits payable in the future
of an amount equivalent to 15 to 30 days salary based on an actuarial valuation.
and such subsidiaries account for superannuation made good by the Company. The embedded interest
benefits payable in future under the plan based on an rate guarantee is considered to be defined benefit.
actuarial valuation.
272 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 242 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements secure returns. However, during the year ended March T he present value of the post-employment benefit 31, 2020, due to a ratings downgrade and potential obligations depends on a number of factors, it is bond default of some of the companies, the total determined on an actuarial basis using a number of liability of principal and interest guarantee has since assumptions. The assumptions used in determining been actuarially valued as a defined benefit. the net cost/(income) for pensions include the discount rate, inflation and mortality assumptions. Any changes vi) Severance indemnity in these assumptions will impact upon the carrying T ata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Company Limited, amount of post-employment benefit obligations. Key
or TDCV, a subsidiary company incorporated in Korea;
has an obligation towards severance indemnity, a
benefit obligations are disclosed in note 36.
Company as part of an Early Separation Scheme, on
the provisions of Schedule II to the Companies Act.
and Payment of Dividend) Rules, 2014. Accordingly, in
on an actuarial valuation.
T ata Motors Limited and some of its subsidiaries and available for distribution is `Nil as at March 31, 2021 (` Nil
joint operations provide for the encashment of leave or as at March 31, 2020).
are entitled to accumulate leave subject to certain
The Company primarily operates in the automotive business.
Vehicles, Jaguar Land Rover and Vehicle Financing. Other
valuation.
operating segments do not meet the quantitative thresholds
ix) Remeasurement gains and losses for disclosure and have been aggregated.
a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability
comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
of profit and loss. Actuarial gains and losses relating
provisions of the instrument.
recognised in determining the carrying amount, if it
31.
is not classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
the related current service cost and past service cost fair value through profit or loss are expensed in profit
are measured using projected unit credit method. or loss.
Resilience and Rebound | 273

--- Page 243 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Subsequently, financial instruments are measured Derivatives which are not designated as hedging instruments
according to the category in which they are classified. are recognized at fair value through profit or loss.
Classification and measurement – financial assets Classification and measurement – financial liabilities:
model in which the instruments are held as well as the
recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
are considered in there entirety when determining whether recognition, these are measured at fair value with gains or
there cash flows are solely payment of principal and losses being recognised in profit or loss.
at their fair values and, are subsequently measured at the
assets changes.
Financial assets are classified into three categories amount initially recognized less, the cumulative amount of
income recognized.
model whose objective is to hold such assets in order to by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net
collect such contractual cash flows are classified in this of direct issue costs.
F air value is the price that would be received to sell
losses.
include financial assets that are equity instruments and is directly observable or estimated using another
are designated as such upon initial recognition irrevocably. valuation technique.
income, net of applicable deferred income taxes. Dividends
value of the consideration given or received).
equity is transferred to retained earnings. those characteristics into account when pricing the
asset or liability at the measurement date.
financial asset, are classified in this category. Subsequently, discounted cash flow method and other valuation
these are measured at fair value, with unrealised gains or methods.
liabilities
gains or losses, which are recognised in profit or loss.
274 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 244 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements retained interest in the asset and an associated liability loss is reversed. The reversal is recognised in the
for amounts it may have to pay. If the Company retains consolidated statement of profit and loss.
to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes
credit losses to trade receivables and contract assets.
a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
in profit or loss. When a financial instrument is
the next 12 months are calculated.
of recovery. The Company reviews the facts and cash flow hedging relationship by applying the hedge
circumstances around each asset before making a accounting principles.
T he Company also uses interest rate swaps to hedge
could still be subject to enforcement activities.
F inancial liabilities are derecognised when these are arising from floating rate liabilities i.e., when interests
extinguished, that is when the obligation is discharged, are paid according to benchmark market interest rates.
cancelled or has expired.
D erivative contracts are stated at fair value on the
iv) Impairment of financial assets consolidated balance sheet at each reporting date.
days past due. Such impairment loss is recognised in
of profit and loss.
may include external ratings (where available) or other the consolidated statement of profit and loss in the
information such as past due payments. Historic data periods in which the forecasted transaction occurs.
and forward-looking information are both considered. For forwards and options, forward premium and the
Objective evidence for a significant increase in credit time value are not considered part of the hedge.
fair value attributable to time value is recognised in the
significant financial difficulties of the borrower.
Resilience and Rebound | 275

--- Page 245 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements hedge and accordingly any changes in their fair value x. Recent accounting pronouncements is recognized in other comprehensive income and i) Amendments issued by MCA to existing standards subsequently reclassified to consolidated statement of profit and loss when the forecast transaction O n July 24, 2020, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs has affects the consolidated statement of profit and loss made following changes applicable from the financial or recognized in the carrying value of asset when the year beginning April 1, 2020 forecasted transaction is for purchase of an asset. a) R evised the definition of the term “business” and E ffective portion of fair value changes in forward related guidance in Ind AS 103. The amendment contracts and options designated as hedges against permits a simplified assessment of whether foreign currency fluctuations arising on certain an acquired set of activities and assets is not a
liabilities denominated in foreign currency are business.
currency liabilities are considered as cost of time by the Interest rate Benchmark reforms (IBOR
period related hedged item and accordingly amortized reforms).
lessees in respect of rent concessions arising
T he Company also uses interest rate swaps to hedge due to Covid-19 pandemic.
statement of profit and loss. users of financial statements to omitting or
H edge accounting is discontinued when the hedging misstating that information.
exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. financial statements upon adoption of the above
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to amendments issued by MCA.
on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is Companies (Indian Accounting Standards) Rules 2015
retained there until the forecast transaction occurs. are:
occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in under the head ‘financial liabilities’, duly
equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated distinguished as current or non-current.
statement of profit and loss for the year.
276 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 246 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements b) C ertain additional disclosures in the statement • Repayable on demand or of changes in equity such as changes in equity • Without specifying any terms/ period of share capital due to prior period errors and repayment restated balances at the beginning of the current reporting period. j) D isclosure of prescribed ratios e.g. current ratio, debt-equity ratio (Explain items included c) S pecified format for disclosure of shareholding in numerator and denominator and any change
of promoters.
are made from banks/ FI on the basis of security
development.
of current assets:
agreement with the books
details of where it has been used.
company, loans and advances to promoters, the head ‘additional information’ in the notes
directors, key managerial personnel (KMP) and forming part of financial statements.
The Company is assessing the impact of these
etc.
g) R ealignment of presentation of following same for the financial statements for the year
financial statement captions: ended March 31, 2022.
registered with ROC beyond the statutory period Ind AS’ (Conceptual Framework). The applicability
along with details and reasons thereof date for the same is yet to be notified.
defined under 2013 Act), either severally or
jointly with any other person that are that are:
Resilience and Rebound | 277

--- Page 247 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(y) The following subsidiary companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements:
278 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 248 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements % of holding either directly Sr Country of or through subsidiaries Name of the Subsidiary company No. incorporation As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 41 S.S. Cars Limited UK 100.00 100.00 42 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited UK 100.00 100.00 43 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.00 100.00 44 Jaguar Land Rover Classic Deutschland GmbH Germany 100.00 100.00 45 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited UK 100.00 100.00 46 Jaguar Land Rover North America LLC USA 100.00 100.00 47 Land Rover Ireland Limited Ireland 100.00 100.00 48 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV Netherlands 100.00 100.00 49 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal - Veiculos e Pecas, Lda. Portugal 100.00 100.00 50 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.00 100.00 51 Jaguar Land Rover Italia Spa Italy 100.00 100.00 52 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL Spain 100.00 100.00 53 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Company Limited South Korea 100.00 100.00 54 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co. Limited China 100.00 100.00 55 Jaguar Land Rover Canada ULC Canada 100.00 100.00 56 Jaguar Land Rover France, SAS France 100.00 100.00 57 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (pty) Limited South Africa 100.00 100.00 58 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil industria e Comercio de Veiculos LTDA Brazil 100.00 100.00 59 Limited Liability Company "Jaguar Land Rover" (Russia) Russia 100.00 100.00 60 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings Limited UK 100.00 100.00 61 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited India 100.00 100.00 62 Jaguar Cars Limited UK 100.00 100.00 63 Land Rover Exports Limited UK 100.00 100.00 64 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited UK 100.00 100.00 65 Jaguar Racing Limited UK 100.00 100.00 66 InMotion Ventures Limited UK 100.00 100.00 67 In-Car Ventures Limited ((Formerly known as Lenny Insurance Limited) UK 100.00 100.00 68 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited UK 100.00 100.00 69 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited UK 100.00 100.00 70 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Services Company Limited China 100.00 100.00 71 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o Slovakia 100.00 100.00 72 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore 100.00 100.00 73 Jaguar Land Rover Columbia S.A.S Columbia 100.00 100.00 74 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia Indonesia 100.00 100.00 75 Tata Motors Finance Solutions Limited India 100.00 100.00 76 Tata Motors Finance Limited India 100.00 100.00 77 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100.00 100.00 78 Jaguar Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited Ireland 100.00 100.00 79 Spark44 (JV) Limited UK 50.50 50.50 80 Spark44 Pty. Ltd. Australia 50.50 50.50 81 Spark44 GMBH Germany 50.50 50.50 82 Spark44 LLC USA 50.50 50.50 83 Spark44 Shanghai Limited China 50.50 50.50 84 Spark44 DMCC UAE 50.50 50.50 85 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Limited India 50.50 50.50 Resilience and Rebound | 279

--- Page 249 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements % of holding either directly Sr Country of or through subsidiaries Name of the Subsidiary company No. incorporation As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 86 Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham) UK 50.50 50.50 87 Spark44 Pte Ltd Singapore 50.50 50.50 88 Spark44 Communication SL Spain 50.50 50.50 89 Spark44 SRL Italy 50.50 50.50 90 Spark44 Seoul Limited Korea 50.50 50.50 91 Spark44 Japan KK Japan 50.50 50.50 92 Spark44 Canada Inc Canada 50.50 50.50 93 Spark44 South Africa (Pty) Limited South Africa 50.50 50.50 94 Spark44 Colombia S.A.S. Columbia 50.50 50.50 95 Spark44 Taiwan Limited Taiwan 50.50 50.50 96 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Limited Taiwan 100.00 100.00 97 Jaguar Land Rover Servicios Mexico,S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100.00 100.00 98 Jaguar Land Rover Mexico,S.A.P.I. de C.V. Mexico 100.00 100.00 99 Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT Hungary 100.00 100.00 100Jaguar Land Rover Classic USA LLC USA 100.00 100.00 101Jaguar Land Rover Ventures Limited UK 100.00 100.00 102Bowler Motors Limited UK 100.00 100.00 103Jaguar Land Rover (Ningbo) Trading Co. Limited China 100.00 100.00
*Effective holding % of the Company directly and through its subsidiaries.
The following Jointly controlled companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements:
280 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 250 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The following associates companies are considered in the consolidated financial statements:
Resilience and Rebound | 281

--- Page 251 ---
Consolidated 282 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 stnemetatS laicnaniF detadilosnoC fo traP gnimroF setoN
TNEMPIUQE
DNA
TNALP
,YTREPORP
)a( .3 )serorc ni `( esael no nekaT esael no neviG stessa denwO erutinruF dna tnalP dna tnalP egatireH erutinruF dna tnalP tnempiuqe dna tnalp ,ytreporP latoT sretupmoC sgnidliuB selciheV sgnidliuB dnaL sretupmoC selciheV sgnidliuB dnaL serutxif dna tnempiuqe tnempiuqe stessA serutxif dnatnempiuqe 59.175,261 - - - - 04.611 61.5 69.33 05.32 22.673 49.717,2 04.894 93.757,1 08.979,221 96.166,62 94.104,7 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa tsoC 59.355,8 - - - - 18.85 - - - - 28.55 74.76 67.23 20.419,7 75.914 05.5 snoitiddA 96.0 - - - - - - - - - 90.0 03.0 32.0 70.0 - - snoitisiuqca ssenisub hguorht snoitiddA )14.289( - - - - )33.4( - - - )82.73( )74.451( )98.08( )73.47( )14.674( )49.47( )27.97( stnemtsujdA/lasopsiD 53.720,9 - - - - - - 35.2 35.1 47.41 92.631 61.31 89.89 86.540,7 66.825,1 87.581 secnereffid noitalsnart ycnerruC 35.171,971 - - - - 88.071 61.5 94.63 30.52 86.353 76.557,2 44.894 99.418,1 61.364,731 89.435,82 50.315,7 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa tsoC noitaicerped detalumuccA 21.986,48 - - - - 72.51 21.4 55.3 - 90.761 43.916,1 17.752 40.390,1 00.720,67 00.205,5 - 0202 ,1 lirpA ta sa 69.278,01 - - - - 28.62 - 61.0 - - 43.812 74.59 08.401 41.591,9 32.232,1 - doirep eht rof noitaicerpeD )57.035( - - - - - )67.2( )56.1( )36.0( )38.864( )88.65( ssol tnemriapmI fo lasreveR 41.0 - - - - - 40.0 40.0 30.0 30.0 - snoitisiuqca ssenisub hguorht snoitiddA )78.106( - - - - )06.2( - - - - )32.441( )59.84( )80.36( )30.992( )89.34( - stnemtsujdA/lasopsiD 68.36 - - - - - - - - - 54.0 - - 98.32 25.93 - stessa fo tnemriapmi/ffoetirW 20.830,5 - - - - - - 40.0 - - 40.46 84.7 07.75 51.985,4 16.913 - secnereffid noitalsnart ycnerruC noitaicerped detalumuccA 84.135,99 - - - - 94.93 21.4 57.3 - 90.761 22.557,1 01.013 68.191,1 53.760,98 05.299,6 - 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa tnuoma gniyrrac teN 50.046,97 - - - - 93.131 40.1 47.23 30.52 95.681 54.000,1 43.881 31.326 18.593,84 84.245,12 50.315,7 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa 30.176,441 51.681 13.4 43.291 83.79 57.26 61.5 82.33 68.22 77.273 01.533,2 13.783 24.126,1 70.322,901 78.048,22 62.682,7 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa tsoC fo noitacilppa laitini no tnemtsujdA )91.655( )51.681( )13.4( )43.291( )83.79( - - - - - - - - - )10.67( -
611 SA
dnI 48.411,441 - - - - 57.26 61.5 82.33 68.22 77.273 01.533,2 13.783 24.126,1 70.322,901 68.467,22 62.682,7 ecnalab gninepo detsujdA 50.459,41 - - - - 97.46 - - - - 98.643 67.541 33.331 47.642,11 10.989,2 35.72 snoitiddA 90.7 - - - - - - - - - - 30.0 06.0 61.1 03.5 - snoitisiuqca ssenisub hguorht snoitiddA )04.928( - - - - )41.11( - )83.0( - )76.8( )84.92( )55.04( )56.64( )60.376( )74.91( - stnemtsujdA/lasopsiD 73.523,4 - - - - - - 60.1 46.0 21.21 34.56 58.5 96.84 98.181,3 99.129 07.78 secnereffid noitalsnart ycnerruC 59.175,261 - - - - 04.611 61.5 69.33 05.32 22.673 49.717,2 04.894 93.757,1 08.979,221 96.166,62 94.104,7 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa tsoC noitaicerped detalumuccA 71.150,27 75.081 73.2 34.441 80.24 79.7 21.4 85.3 - 96.161 20.404,1 34.412 28.859 38.877,46 62.841,4 - 9102 ,1 lirpA ta sa fo noitacilppa laitini no tnemtsujdA )54.963( )75.081( )73.2( )34.441( )80.24( - - - - - - - - - - -
611 SA
dnI 37.186,17 - - - - 79.7 21.4 85.3 - 96.161 20.404,1 34.412 28.859 38.877,46 62.841,4 - ecnalab gninepo detsujdA 21.016,01 - - - - 53.41 - 43.0 - - 53.002 40.97 17.911 57.270,9 85.321,1 - doirep eht rof noitaicerpeD )83.926( - - - - )50.7( - )03.0( - - )84.92( )55.04( )82.52( )67.315( )69.21( - stnemtsujdA/lasopsiD 62.419 - - - - - - - - - 94.21 79.1 90.31 34.628 82.06 - stessa fo tnemriapmi/ffoetirW 93.211,2 - - - - - - )70.0( - 04.5 69.13 28.2 07.62 57.268,1 48.281 - secnereffid noitalsnart ycnerruC noitaicerped detalumuccA 21.986,48 - - - - 72.51 21.4 55.3 - 90.761 43.916,1 17.752 40.390,1 00.720,67 00.205,5 - 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa tnuoma gniyrrac teN 38.288,77 - - - - 31.101 40.1 14.03 05.32 31.902 06.890,1 96.042 53.466 18.259,64 96.951,12 94.104,7 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa
SSEGORP-NI-KROW
LATIPAC
)b( .3 dedne raeY dedne raeY 0202 ,13 hcraM 1202 ,13 hcraM 71.835,8 65.995,8 gninnigeb eht ta ecnalaB 55.327,41 75.295,9 snoitiddA )59.196,41( )24.411,8( tnempiuqe dna tnalp ,ytreporP fo tsoc ot derrefsnarT )72.681( )84.922,2( )teN( )ffo etirW(/tnemriapmi rof lasreveR/)noisivorP( 60.612 19.825 tcapmi noitalsnart ycnerruC 65.995,8 41.773,8 dne eht ta ecnalaB

--- Page 252 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 4 (a) LEASES T he Company leases a number of buildings, plant and equipment, IT hardware and software assets, certain of which have a renewal and/ or purchase option in the normal course of the business. Extension and termination options are included in a number of leases across the Company. The majority of extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the Company and not by the respective lessor. The Company assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension or termination option. The Company re-assesses whether it is reasonably certain to exercise options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within its control. It is recognised that there is potential for lease term assumptions to change in the future due to the effects of the COVID-19
pandemic, and this will continue to be monitored by the Company where relevant. The Company’s leases mature between 2021 and 2049.
W hen measuring lease liability, the Company discounted lease payments using its incremental borrowing rate as at April 1, 2020. The
weighted-average rate applied is 7.97% per annum.
Year ended Year ended
The following amounts are recognised in the consolidated statement of Profit & Loss:
Resilience and Rebound | 283

--- Page 253 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Plant, Furniture, Computers machinery Fixtures Other Land Buildings Vehicles & other IT Total and and Office Assets assets equipments Appliances Cost as at April 1, 2019 - - - - - - - - Adjustment on initial application of Ind AS 116 267.39 5,204.99 786.70 4.33 17.86 303.34 34.98 6,619.59 Additions - 757.82 368.41 119.92 82.30 28.11 - 1,356.56 Disposals/adjustments - (144.30) - - (1.41) - - (145.71) Currency translation differences 5.75 184.65 22.60 8.76 3.60 4.70 1.17 231.23 Cost as at March 31, 2020 273.14 6,003.16 1,177.71 133.01 102.35 336.15 36.15 8,061.67 Accumulated amortisation as at April 1, 2019 - - - - - - - - Adjustment on initial application of Ind AS 116 0.15 39.65 142.70 2.37 - 180.57 - 365.44 Amortisation for the period 33.90 710.19 244.46 10.99 33.61 74.51 8.83 1,116.49 Impairment of Asset - 260.36 36.56 - - 0.08 - 297.00 Disposal/adjustments - (29.96) - - (0.86) - - (30.82) Currency translation differences 1.33 22.24 9.50 0.62 1.34 2.83 0.36 38.22 Accumulated amortisation 35.38 1,002.48 433.22 13.98 34.09 257.99 9.19 1,786.33 as at March 31, 2020 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2020 237.76 5,000.68 744.49 119.03 68.26 78.16 26.96 6,275.34 The Company has committed towards leases of Plant Machinery and Equipments which have not yet commenced for `30.00 crores as on
March 31, 2021 (` 171.00 crores as on March 31, 2020). There are no leases with residual value guarantees.
5. GOODWILL
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Balance at the beginning 777.06 747.87 Impairment - (8.31) Currency translation differences 26.66 37.50 Balance at the end 803.72 777.06 A s at March 31, 2021, goodwill of `99.09 crores and `704.63 crores relates to the passenger vehicles - automotive and related activity segment (Tata and other brand vehicles) and “others” segment, respectively. As at March 31, 2020, goodwill of `99.09 crores and `677.97 crores relates to the passenger vehicles - automotive and related activity segment (Tata and other brand vehicles) and “others” segment,
respectively.
future cash flows, after considering current economic conditions and trends, estimated future operating results, growth rates and anticipated
future economic conditions.
13.22%.The cash flows beyond 5 years have been extrapolated assuming 2% growth rates. The management believes that any reasonably
possible change in the key assumptions would not cause the carrying amount to exceed the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit.
284 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 254 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 6. (a) OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS (` in crores) Intellectual Indefinite Patents and property Customer life trade Product Software technological rights Total related marks and development know how and other patents intangibles Cost as at April 1, 2020 8,172.29 1,624.84 616.12 371.17 5,783.60 82,599.86 99,167.88 Additions 844.86 0.79 - - - 16,735.88 17,581.53 Additions through business acquisitions 1.10 - - - - - 1.10 Disposal/Adjustments (1.73) - - - - - (1.73) Fully amortized not in use (22.94) - - - - - (22.94) Currency translation differences 606.38 106.50 46.68 24.29 447.12 6,311.52 7,542.49 Cost as at March 31, 2021 9,599.96 1,732.13 662.80 395.46 6,230.72 105,647.26 124,268.33 Accumulated amortisation 5,664.52 1,481.58 405.40 202.39 1,375.45 47,866.63 56,995.97 as at April 1, 2020 Amortization for the year 829.74 24.69 24.80 26.83 - 10,595.65 11,501.71 Additions through business acquisitions 0.20 - - - - - 0.20 Provision/(Reversal) for impairment/Write off 0.24 - - - - (429.10) (428.86) Asset fully amortised not in use (22.94) - - - - - (22.94) Currency translation differences 425.68 106.11 31.77 14.23 106.29 3,764.99 4,449.07 Accumulated amortisation 6,897.44 1,612.38 461.97 243.45 1,481.74 61,798.17 72,495.15 as at March 31, 2021 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2021 2,702.52 119.75 200.83 152.01 4,748.98 43,849.09 51,773.18 Cost as at April 1, 2019 6,768.17 1,459.50 598.01 354.96 5,596.61 72,320.83 87,098.08 Additions 1,179.17 120.81 - 0.22 - 12,019.33 13,319.53 Capitalised product development - - - - - - - Additions through business acquisitions - - - 10.32 - - 10.32 Fully amortized not in use (40.46) - - - - (4,159.76) (4,200.22) Currency translation differences 265.41 44.53 18.11 5.67 186.99 2,419.46 2,940.17 Cost as at March 31, 2020 8,172.29 1,624.84 616.12 371.17 5,783.60 82,599.86 99,167.88 Accumulated amortisation 4,630.45 1,397.21 369.97 174.49 1,330.99 41,328.22 49,231.33 as at April 1, 2019 Amortization for the year 907.58 39.93 22.89 25.36 - 8,703.06 9,698.82 Writeoff/impairment of assets 0.45 - - - - 542.00 542.45 Asset fully amortised not in use (40.46) - - - - (4,159.76) (4,200.22) Currency translation differences 166.50 44.44 12.54 2.54 44.46 1,453.11 1,723.59 Accumulated amortisation 5,664.52 1,481.58 405.40 202.39 1,375.45 47,866.63 56,995.97 as at March 31, 2020 Net carrying amount as at March 31, 2020 2,507.77 143.26 210.72 168.78 4,408.15 34,733.23 42,171.91 6. (b) INTANGIBLE ASSETS UNDER DEVELOPMENT (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Balance at the beginning 27,022.73 23,345.67 Additions * 8,632.21 16,222.16 Transferred to cost of other intangible assets (16,857.14) (13,198.50) (Provision)/Reversal for impairment/(Write off) (7,555.32) (162.69) Currency translation impact 1,344.31 816.09 Balance at the end 12,586.79 27,022.73 * the additions during the year include allocation of central overheads amounting to `806.12 crores (` 1,094.35 crores as at March 31,
2020).
Resilience and Rebound | 285

--- Page 255 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 6. ( c) T he useful life of trademarks and brands in respect of the acquired Jaguar Land Rover businesses have been determined to be indefinite as
the Company expects to generate future economic benefits indefinitely from these assets.
7. IMPAIRMENT ASSESSMENT OF JAGUAR LAND ROVER BUSINESS
The operations of its subsidiary Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), excluding equity accounted investments, represents a single cash-generating unit (“CGU”).
This is because of the closely connected nature of the cash flows and the degree of integrated development and manufacturing activities.
In response to the annual requirement of accounting standard, and the impact of Reimagine, management performed an impairment assessment as
at March 31, 2021.
increased headroom do not support this. The increase in headroom is more related to unwind of the discount rate and asset write-offs than an
improvement in the underlying performance of the business when compared against the assumed performance at the date of impairment.
reporting date. The business plan includes a five-year cash flow forecast and contains growth rates that are primarily a function of the JLR’s Cycle
Plan assumptions, historic performance and management’s expectation of future market developments through to 2025/26.
In forecasting the future cash flows management have given due consideration to the risks that have arisen due to the current economic uncertainty.
The approach and key assumptions used to determine JLR’s CGU VIU were as follows:
necessary to derive a steady-state variable profit value based on this change, the business plan volume set and associated implied variable profit
levels;
derived based the management’s best estimate of a maintenance level of capital expenditure which has been derived from depreciation and
amortisation expectations and funding requirements in responses to longer-term industry trends which are anticipated in the VIU calculation.
recoverable amount lies in the VIU terminal value, management have focussed disclosures on reasonably possible changes that impact the
terminal value.
Given the inherent uncertainty about how risk may arise, and the interaction of volumes and cost management, management consider a net impact
on terminal period cash flows to be the best means of indicating the sensitivity of the model to such changes in the terminal period.
The value of key assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount are as follows:
The table below shows the amount by which the value assigned to the key assumptions must change for the recoverable amount of the CGU
to be equal to its carrying amount:
286 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 256 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 8. IMPAIRMENT LOSSES/(REVERSAL) FOR PASSENGER VEHICLE SEGMENT AND OTHER PROVISIONS (a) Impairment losses/(reversal) for Passenger Vehicle Segment The Company tests its passenger vehicle cash generating unit (CGU) for impairment at least annually and more frequently when there is an indication of impairment. An impairment loss is recognized if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value. The Company also periodically assesses if there are any triggers for reversal of previously recognised impairment loss. A reversal of impairment loss
is recognised if there is a trigger for reversal and the recoverable value exceeds the carrying value.
recoverable value determined by Fair Value less Cost of Disposal (‘FVLCD’) was lower than the carrying value of the CGU and this
resulted in an impairment charge for the year ended March 31, 2020 recognised within ‘Exceptional items’.
the assumed performance at the time when the impairment loss was recorded. Based on this reassessment, the Company has reversed
the initially recognised impairment for this CGU.
The key drivers for this improved performance include :
the Company to enhance it’s market share to 8.1% for the year ended March 31, 2021 as compared to 4.8% for the year ended March
31, 2020.
applied to actual sales of the CGU for year ended March 31, 2021 has been considered as the FVLCD as per CCM. The fair value of the
CGU is as follows:
Recoverable amount 14,618.60 9,120.00
The approach and key (unobservable) assumptions used to determine the CGU’s FVLCD were as follows:
The carrying value of the CGU was `5,853.39 crores as at March 31, 2021, compared with the recoverable value of `14,618.60 crores,
determined by FVCLD and `10,588.00 crores as per VIU.
Resilience and Rebound | 287

--- Page 257 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The impairment loss recognised in the year ended March 31, 2020 and its subsequent reversal in the year ended March 31, 2021 was
as follows:
The change in the following assumptions used in the impairment review would, in isolation, lead to a change in FVCLD as at March 31,
2021 (although it should be noted that these sensitivities do not take account of potential mitigating actions):
which had become onerous, as the Company estimated that it will procure lower quantities than committed and the costs will exceed
the future economic benefit.
of provision aggregating `777.00 crores has been accounted. During the year the Company has also made provision for estimated
supplier claims of `114.00 crores, which are under negotations with supplier.
than the carrying value of the CGU of `344.04 crores and this resulted in an impairment charge of `297.49 crores recognized for
the year ended March 31, 2020.
assets according to Management’s estimates. The Company recognized an impairment charge of `55.71 crores for the year
ended March 31, 2020 , which includes `8.31 crores for goodwill and `46.17 crores for current tax assets.
288 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 258 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
9. INVESTMENTS IN EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTEES:
(a) Associates:
The Company has no material associates as at March 31, 2021. The aggregate summarized financial information in respect of the
Company’s immaterial associates that are accounted for using the equity method is set forth below.
`124.10 crores and `89.01 crores as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The carrying amount as at March 31, 2021 and 2020
was `138.25 crores and `143.11 crores, respectively.
(b) Joint ventures:
(i) Details of the Company’s material joint venture is as follows:
the assets and obligations for the liabilities of the joint arrangement. Accordingly, Chery is classified as a joint venture. Chery is
not publicly listed.
T he following tables sets out the summarised financial information of Chery after adjusting for material differences in accounting
policies:
Non-current liabilities (115.73) (770.37)
The above amounts of assets and liabilities include the following:
Resilience and Rebound | 289

--- Page 259 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Revenue 18,058.00 11,609.02 Net income/(loss) (822.09) (2,005.40) Total comprehensive income for the year (822.09) (2,005.40)
The above net income includes the following:
Reconciliation of above summarized financial information to the carrying amount of the interest in the joint venture recognized in
the consolidated financial statements:
Automotive Co. Ltd. (2020 : £ 67.3 million (`606.40 crores)) and an amount of £ Nil (`Nil) (2020: £ 67.3 million (`606.40 crores)) was
invested by UK subsidiary in Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co. Ltd.
(ii) T he aggregate summarized financial information in respect of the Company’s immaterial joint ventures that are accounted for
using the equity method is set forth below.
Company’s share of total comprehensive income in immaterial joint ventures 0.15 -
( c) Summary of carrying amount of the Company’s interest in equity accounted investees:
290 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 260 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(d) Summary of Company’s share of profit/(loss) in equity accounted investees:
(378.96) (1,000.00)
(e) Summary of Company’s share of other comprehensive income in equity accounted investees:
amortization/depreciation and other adjustments arising on account of fair value adjustments made to the identifiable net assets
of the equity accounted investee as at the date of acquisition and other adjustment arising under the equity method of accounting.
10 OTHER INVESTMENTS - NON-CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Investments - measured at Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income
Quoted:
Equity shares 499.39 158.68
Unquoted:
(b) Investments - measured at Fair value through profit or loss
Quoted:
(i) Equity shares - 157.78
Unquoted:
Resilience and Rebound | 291

--- Page 261 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
11 OTHER INVESTMENTS - CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Investments - measured at Fair value through profit and loss
Unquoted:
(b) Investments - measured at amortised cost
Unquoted:
Aggregate book value of unquoted investments 19,051.19 10,861.54
12. LOANS AND ADVANCES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Non-current
Secured, considered good:
at March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020, respectively.)
Unsecured, considered good:
Current
Secured, considered good:
(a) Loans to channel partners 104.36 113.14
Unsecured, considered good:
292 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 262 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
13. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Non-current (a) Derivative financial instruments 3,261.22 2,291.16 (b) Interest accrued on loans and deposits 54.57 28.19 ( c) Deposits with banks 80.40 - (d) Restricted deposits 324.46 83.95 (e) Margin money / cash collateral with banks 534.68 786.51 (f) Government grant receivables 665.67 578.19 (g) Recoverable from suppliers 761.13 974.70 (h) Finance lease receivables 126.90 - (i) Other deposits 4.95 6.87 Total 5,813.98 4,749.57 Margin money with banks in restricted cash deposits consists of collateral provided for transfer of finance receivables. Restricted deposits as at
March 31, 2021 and 2020 includes `47.55 crores and `56.12 crores, respectively, held as a deposit in relation to ongoing legal cases.
Deposits with financial institutions as at March 31, 2021 of `100.00 crores (as at March 31, 2020 `Nil) is held as security in relation to
repayment of borrowings.
14. INVENTORIES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Raw materials and components 3,029.64 2,103.36 (b) Work-in-progress 4,373.48 4,550.29 ( c) Finished goods 27,313.14 29,631.77 (d) Stores and spare parts 185.33 189.84 (e) Consumable tools 485.07 518.53 (f) Goods-in-transit - Raw materials and components 701.93 463.09 Total 36,088.59 37,456.88
Note:
(i) I nventories of finished goods include `4,171.69 crores and `4,358.71 crores as at March 31, 2021 and 2020 respectively, relating to
vehicles sold subject to repurchase arrangements.
(ii) C ost of inventories (including cost of purchased products) recognized as expense during the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020
amounted to `1,82,360.88 crores and `1,96,621.07 crores, respectively.
(iii) D uring the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, the Company recorded inventory write-down expense of `129.19 crores and `320.81
crores, respectively.
Resilience and Rebound | 293

--- Page 263 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
15. TRADE RECEIVABLES (UNSECURED)
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Receivables considered good 12,679.08 11,172.69 Credit impaired receivables 989.19 1,114.00 13,668.27 12,286.69 Less : Allowance for credit impaired receivables (989.19) (1,114.00) Total 12,679.08 11,172.69
16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Cash on hand 11.11 6.96 (b) Cheques on hand 27.92 45.07 ( c) Balances with banks 8,679.66 8,994.82 (d) Deposit with banks 22,981.32 9,420.95 Total 31,700.01 18,467.80
17. BANK BALANCES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
With upto 12 months maturity:
Total 15,092.45 15,259.17
Note:
security in relation to interest and repayment of bank borrowings. Out of these deposits, `174.44 crores and `101.51 crores as at
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively are pledged till the maturity of the respective borrowings.
pending with Employee Provident Fund Organization. Subsequent to the year end, these balances are transferred to Tata Motors
Pension Trust.
294 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 264 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
18. FINANCE RECEIVABLES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Finance receivables 35,962.59 31,730.45 Less: allowance for credit losses (1,247.68) (651.38) Total 34,714.91 31,079.07 Current portion 17,868.09 14,245.30 Non-current portion 16,846.82 16,833.77 Total 34,714.91 31,079.07
Changes in the allowance for credit losses in finance receivables are as follows:
Balance at the end 1,247.68 651.38
19. ALLOWANCE FOR TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Change in the allowances for trade and other receivables are as follows:
Balance at the end 1,274.38 1,360.68
* Includes `29.32 crores and `34.44 crores netted off in revenues as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
20. OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Capital advances 219.92 387.05 (b) Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government (net of allowances for credit 908.35 713.71 impaired balances of `31.66 crores and `Nil as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively) ( c) Prepaid expenses 183.11 84.87 (d) Recoverable from insurance companies 291.05 371.21 (e) Employee benefits 5.09 3,821.08 (f) Others 0.97 3.65 Total 1,608.49 5,381.57 Resilience and Rebound | 295

--- Page 265 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
21. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Advances and other receivables (Net of allowances for credit impaired balances `61.48 crores and 517.55 505.97 `47.44 crores as at March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020, respectively.) (b) GST/VAT, other Taxes recoverable, statutory deposits and dues from government (Net of 4,175.18 4,229.15 allowances for credit impaired balances `83.18 crores and `58.84 crores as at March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020, respectively.) ( c) Prepaid expenses 1,220.13 1,334.36 (d) Employee benefits 43.93 3.10 (e) Others 341.61 192.33 Total 6,298.40 6,264.91
22. INCOME TAXES
The domestic and foreign components of profit/(loss) before income tax is as follows:
Total (10,474.28) (10,579.98)
The domestic and foreign components of income tax expense is as follows:
296 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 266 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements T he reconciliation of income tax expense calculated as per tax rates applicable to individual entities with income tax expense/(credit)
reported in the consolidated statement of profit & loss is as follows:
Additional deduction for patent, research and product development cost 1.66 (281.62)
Items (net) not deductible for tax/not liable to tax :
- foreign currency (gain)/loss relating to loans and deposits (net), foreign currency (gain)/loss arising 4.95 47.45
on account of Integral foreign operations.
Income tax expense reported in consolidated statement of profit & loss 2,541.86 395.25
Note :
49.2 million) for the year ended March 31, 2020. The rate applicable from April 1, 2020 now remains at 19%, rather than the previously
enacted reduction to 17%.
Accordingly, JLR UK deferred tax has been provided at a rate of 19% on assets (2020: 19%) and 19% on liabilities (2020: 19%),
recognising the applicable tax rate at the point when the timing difference is expected to reverse.
beginning April 1, 2019. TML has accordingly applied the existing tax rates in the financial statements for the year ended March 31,
2021.
Resilience and Rebound | 297

--- Page 267 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2021 are as follows:
translation
Deferred tax assets:
Business loss carry forwards 3,440.17 (977.26) 32.22 - - 2,495.13
Expenses deductible in future years:
Total deferred tax assets 19,534.72 (1,779.25) 733.24 330.83 - 18,819.54
Deferred tax liabilities:
Deferred tax liabilities ` 1,555.89
* Net off `215.66 crores reversed on dividend distribution by subsidiaries.
differences and business losses. The deferred tax asset has not been recognized on the basis that its recovery is not probable in the
foreseeable future.
Unrecognized deferred tax assets expire unutilized based on the year of origination as follows:
and `47,629.56 crores as at March 31, 2021 and 2020 respectively, because it is able to control the timing of the reversal of temporary
differences associated with such undistributed profits and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
298 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 268 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the year ended March 31, 2020 are as follows:
116 translation
Deferred tax assets:
Business loss carry forwards 2,971.96 - 2,971.96 437.73 30.48 - - 3,440.17
Expenses deductible in future years:
Total deferred tax assets 18,861.05 29.23 18,890.28 1,940.87 436.07 (1,728.72) (3.78) 19,534.72
Deferred tax liabilities:
Deferred tax liabilities ` 1,941.87
* Net off `46.21 crores reversed on dividend distribution by subsidiaries.
Resilience and Rebound | 299

--- Page 269 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
23. EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
(a) Authorised:
Total 4,000.00 4,000.00
(b) Issued [Note (j)]:
Total 765.91 719.64
( c) Subscribed and called up:
300 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 270 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (h) During the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company has allotted 20,16,23,407 Ordinary Shares at a price of `150 per Ordinary Share aggregating to `3,024.35 crores and 23,13,33,871 Convertible Warrants (‘Warrants’), each carrying a right to subscribe to one Ordinary Share per Warrant, at a price of `150 per Warrant (‘Warrant Price’), aggregating to `3,470.00 crores on a preferential basis to Tata Sons Private Limited. An amount equivalent to 25% of the Warrant Price was paid at the time of subscription and the balance 75% of the Warrant Price was payable by the Warrant holder against each Warrant at the time of allotment of Ordinary Shares pursuant to exercise of the options attached to Warrant(s) to subscribe to Ordinary Share(s), by June 2021. The Company has fully utilized the amount of `3,891.85
crores towards repayment of debt, and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries.
of `2,602.51 crores, the Company has fully converted 23,13,33,871 convertible warrants into Ordinary Shares, that were issued during year
ended March 31, 2020. The Company has not utilised any of this amount as at March 31, 2021.
Ordinary shares of `2 each (as at March 31, 2020: 233,214 ‘A’ Ordinary shares of `2 each) are subject matter of various suits filed in the courts
/ forums by third parties for which final order is awaited and hence kept in abeyance.
(j) Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to shares :
(i) Ordinary shares and ‘A’ Ordinary shares both of `2 each :
vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary shares held as per the terms of its issue and if a resolution is put to vote on a show of hands, the holder
of ‘A’ Ordinary shares shall be entitled to the same number of votes as available to holders of Ordinary shares.
to receive dividend for each financial year at five percentage point more than the aggregate rate of dividend declared on Ordinary
shares for that financial year.
• In the event of liquidation, the shareholders are eligible to receive the remaining assets of the Company after distribution of all
preferential amounts, in proportion to their shareholdings.
(ii) American Depositary Shares (ADSs) and Global Depositary Shares (GDSs) :
agreement and Indian Law. The depositary for the ADSs and GDSs shall exercise voting rights in respect of the deposited shares by
issue of an appropriate proxy or power of attorney in terms of the respective deposit agreements.
• Shares issued upon conversion of ADSs and GDSs will rank pari passu with the existing Ordinary shares of `2 each in all respects
including entitlement of the dividend declared.
(k) Number of shares held by each shareholder holding more than 5 percent of the issued share capital :
Share Capital No. of Shares Share Capital No. of Shares
(i) Ordinary shares :
(b) Citibank N A as Depository # 35,37,15,165 # 32,07,93,365
(ii) 'A' Ordinary shares :
(l) Information regarding issue of shares in the last five years
(a) The Company has not issued any shares without payment being received in cash.
(b) The Company has not issued any bonus shares.
( c) The Company has not undertaken any buy-back of shares.
Resilience and Rebound | 301

--- Page 271 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
24. OTHER COMPONENTS OF EQUITY
(a) The movement of Currency translation reserve is as follows:
Balance at the end 8,727.21 4,874.70
(b) The movement of Equity instruments held as fair value through other comprehensive income(FVTOCI) is as follows:
( c) The movement of gain/(loss) on debt instruments held as fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCI) is
as follows:
Balance at the end 256.78 88.63
(d) The movement of Hedging reserve is as follows:
Balance at the end 311.35 (3,891.90)
Of the above balance related to :
302 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 272 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(e) The movement of Cost of hedging reserve is as follows:
Balance at the end 66.88 (213.28)
Of the above balance related to :
Discontinued Hedges - 2.37
(f) Summary of Other components of equity:
crores and related tax expenses of `129.88 crores for the previous year. The change in presentation is within the statement of other
comprehensive income and does not affect Profit / (loss) for the period and earnings per share.
Resilience and Rebound | 303

--- Page 273 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
25. NOTES TO RESERVES AND SURPLUS
(a) Securities premium
The amount received in excess of face value of the equity shares is recognised in Securities premium account.
(b) Retained earnings
Retained earnings are the profits that the Company has earned till date.
up unissued shares of the company to be issued to shareholders of the company as fully paid bonus shares. Tata Motors Limited established this
reserve pursuant to the redemption of preference shares issued in earlier years.
certain conditions, by way of deduction from the taxable income, provided that TDCV appropriates an equivalent amount from “Retained Earnings”
to “Reserve for Research and Human Resource Development”.
T he deferment is for a period of three years and from the fourth year onwards one-third of the reserve is offered to tax and an equal amount is then
transferred from the reserve to “Retained earnings available for appropriation”.
amount not less than 20% of its net profit to a reserve fund before declaring any dividend. Appropriation from this reserve fund is permitted only for
the purposes specified by the RBI.
reserves equal to 50% of capital stock. This reserve may not be utilized for cash dividends, but may only be used to offset against future deficits, if
any, or may be transferred to capital stock.
(h) Hedge Reserve
E ffective portion of fair value gain/(loss) on all financial insturments designated in cash flow hedge relationship are accumulated in hedge reserve.
F air value gain/(loss) attributable to cost of hedge on all financials instruments designated in cash flow hedge relationship are accumulated in cost
of hedge reserve.
T he capital reserve represents the excess of the Company’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities over the purchase consideration.
year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 , considering the accumulated losses in the Tata Motors Limited Standalone, no dividend was permitted to be
paid to the members, as per the Companies Act, 2013 and the rules framed thereunder.
S hare-based payments reserve represents amount of fair value, as on the date of grant, of unvested options and vested options not exercised till
date, that have been recognised as expense in the statement of profit or loss till date.
(m) Reserve for Equity instruments through other comprehensive income
F air value gain/loss arising on equity investment that are designated as held at fair value through Other comprehensive income is included here.
(n) Reserve for Debt instruments through other comprehensive income
F air value gain/loss arising on debt investment that are designated as held at fair value through Other comprehensive income is included here.
304 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 274 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
26. LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Secured:
(b) Collateralized debt obligations 1,260.87 2,058.76
( c) Term loans:
(d) Others 226.11 188.14
Unsecured:
(b) Perpetual Debenture 1,320.15 -
( c) Term loans:
Total 93,112.77 83,315.62
27. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Secured:
(a) Loans from banks 6,298.57 7,110.88
Unsecured:
Resilience and Rebound | 305

--- Page 275 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Notes :
Nature of Security (on loans including interest accrued thereon) :
(i) Rated, Listed, Secured, 8.80% Coupon, Non-Convertible Debentures amounting to `997.46 crores included within Long-term
borrowings in note 26 are secured by a pari passu charge by way of the Company’s property, plant and equipment.
(ii) P rivately placed non-convertible debentures amounting to `1,772.12 crores included within Long-term borrowings in note 26
and `681.25 crores included within Current maturities of long-term borrowings in note 29 are fully secured by :
(a) First pari passu charge on residential flat of Tata Motors Finance Limited (TMFL) an indirect subsidiary of the Company
(b) Pari - passu charge is created in favour of debenture trustee on :
- All receivables of TMFL arising out of loan and lease transactions,
- All book debts, trade advances forming part of movable property of TML.
( c) Any other security as identified by TMFL and acceptable to the debenture trustee.
C ollateralised debt obligation represent amount received against finance receivables securitised/assigned, which does not qualify for
derecognition.The repayments are due from financial year ending March 31, 2021 to March 31, 2025.
invested; and such other current assets as may be identified from time to
time and accepted by the relevant lender/security trustee.
company has invested; and such other current assets as may be identified
from time to time and accepted by the relevant lender.
repayment from June 2021 to September 2025
4 18.75 3.57 Pari passu first charge on fixed assets.
over Company's leasehold land together with building structures, plant
and machinery, fixtures and other assets.
from the quarter ending June 30, 2030 to March 31, 2033, along with a
simple interest of 0.01% p.a.
4 - 9.08 Secured by pari passu first charge on fixed assets of Tata Marcopolo
Motors Limited.
5 - 1,108.41 Secured by pari passu first charge on fixed assets.
306 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 276 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (D) Short-term borrowings Loans, cash credits, overdrafts and buyers line of credit from banks are secured by hypothecation of existing current assets of the Company viz. stock of raw materials, stock in process, semi-finished goods, stores and spares not relating to plant and machinery (consumable stores and spares), bills receivable and book debts including receivable from hire purchase / leasing and all other
moveable current assets except cash and bank balances, loans and advances of the Company both present and future.
LONG-TERM BORROWINGS: TERMS
(A) Senior notes (Euro MTF listed debt) The senior notes of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Plc (JLR) are listed on the Euro MTF market, which is a listed market regulated by
the Luxembourg Stock Exchange.
Details of the tranches of the senior notes outstanding are as follows:
43,533.42 36,118.71
* Classified as other current liabilities being maturity before March 31, 2022.
The senior notes of Tata Motors Limited and TML Holdings Pte Ltd are listed on the SGX-ST market, which is a listed market regulated
by the Singapore Stock Exchange.
Details of the tranches of the senior notes outstanding at March 31, 2021 are as follows:
9,324.82 8,384.90
* Classified as other current liabilities being maturity before March 31, 2022.
included within current maturities of long term borrowings in note 29 bear interest rate ranging from 6.75% to 11.50% and maturity
ranging from April 2021 to March 2029.
(D) Perpetual debenture amounting to `1,320.15 crores included within long-term borrowing in note 26 bear interest rate ranging from
7.75% to 8.75% having simultaneous call/put option after 4/5th year from the date of issuance.
Resilience and Rebound | 307

--- Page 277 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
(E ) Loan from banks/ financial institutions consists of:
within current maturities of long term borrowings in note 29 bearing floating interest rate based on marginal cost of funds lending
rate (MCLR) of respective bank having maturity ranging from September, 2021 to June 2026.
note 26 and `137.89 crores included within current maturities of long term borrowings in note 29 bearing floating interest rate
based on LIBOR having maturity ranging from May 2023 to June 2025.
included within current maturities of long term borrowings in note 29 bearing floating interest rate that are linked to LIBOR
maturity ranging from September 2021 to July 2024.
(iv) F oreign currency syndicate loan amounting to `7,240.25 crores included within long-term borrowing in note 26 bearing floating
interest rate that are linked to LIBOR maturity ranging from October 2022 to January 2025.
quarter ending June 30, 2022 to quarter ending June 30, 2026, along with a simple interest of 8.50% p.a. The loan is secured by
a charge over Company’s leasehold land together with building structures, plant and machinery, fixtures and other assets.
discounting amounting to `7,842.93 crores bearing fixed rate of interest ranging from 5.98% to 7.00% and `5,474.95 crores bear
floating rate of interest based on MCLR of respective banks and other benchmark rates.
(ii) C ommercial paper are unsecured short term papers issued at discount bearing no coupon interest. The yield on commercial paper
issued by the Company ranges from 6.83 % to 7.33 %.
308 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 278 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
28. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES – NON-CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Derivative financial instruments 2,059.43 3,255.88 (b) Liability towards employee separation scheme 132.67 75.83 ( c) Option Premium Liability 273.44 397.41 (d) Others 90.81 129.36 Total 2,556.35 3,858.48
29. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES – CURRENT
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Current maturities of long-term borrowings 21,128.95 19,132.37 (b) Interest accrued but not due on borrowings 1,602.80 1,285.10 ( c) Liability towards vehicles sold under repurchase arrangements 3,622.88 4,483.38 (d) Liability for capital expenditure (Refer note 2 below) 5,189.24 6,403.22 (e) Deposits and retention money 604.89 537.55 (f) Derivative financial instruments 2,420.18 4,280.60 (g) Liability towards Investors Education and Protection Fund under Section 125 of the Companies Act, 5.28 5.42 2013 (IEPF) not due (h) Option Premium Liability 110.33 91.87 (i) Others 170.04 324.49 Total 34,854.59 36,544.00
Notes:
1) Current maturities of long term borrowings consist of :
2) I ncludes `22.48 crores outstanding as at March 31, 2021 towards principal and interest provision on dues of micro enterprises and
small enterprises as per MSMED ACT 2006.
Resilience and Rebound | 309

--- Page 279 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
30. PROVISIONS
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Non-current (a) Employee benefits obligations 979.99 1,126.61 (b) Product warranty 11,187.88 11,387.41 ( c) Legal and product liability 717.36 506.59 (d) Provision for residual risk 425.13 1,064.83 (e) Provision for environmental liability 225.59 160.66 (f) Provision for Onerous Contracts and related supplier claims - 414.75 (g) Other provisions 70.81 75.84 Total 13,606.76 14,736.69 Current (a) Employee benefit obligations 1,071.93 255.54 (b) Product warranty 7,415.99 7,909.78 ( c) Legal and product liability 1,995.82 1,163.07 (d) Provision for residual risk 242.25 572.36 (e) Provision for environmental liability 35.15 45.16 (f) Provision for Onerous Contracts and related supplier claims 117.44 362.25 (g) Restructuring Provision 1,951.92 - (h) Other provisions 17.53 20.88 Total 12,848.03 10,329.04 (` in crores) Year ended March 31, 2021 Provision for Provision for Product Legal and Provision for Restructuring Onerous Contract environmental warranty product Liability residual risk Provision and related liability supplier claims Balance at the beginning 19,297.19 1,669.66 1,637.19 205.82 - 777.00 Provision made/(reversed) during the year 6,088.41 1,447.86 (524.99) 54.25 1,951.92 (659.56) Provision used during the year (8,329.35) (561.09) (428.47) (18.06) - - Impact of unwind of discounting 279.15 - - - - - Impact of foreign exchange translation 1,268.47 156.75 (16.35) 18.73 - - Balance at the end 18,603.87 2,713.18 667.38 260.74 1,951.92 117.44 Current 7,415.99 1,995.82 242.25 35.15 1,951.92 117.44 Non-current 11,187.88 717.36 425.13 225.59 - -
31. OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Contract liabilities (refer note below) 4,847.70 5,015.77 (b) Government grants 3,308.75 3,332.05 ( c) Employee benefits obligations 4,091.75 341.64 (d) Others 64.38 70.06 Total 12,312.58 8,759.52 310 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 280 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
32. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
(` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Contract liabilities (refer note below) 5,735.93 4,256.63 (b) Government grants 750.34 154.46 ( c) Statutory dues (VAT, Excise, Service Tax, GST, Octroi etc) 3,729.69 3,655.03 (d) Others 227.22 899.83 Total 10,443.18 8,965.95
Note:
Total contract liabilities 10,583.63 9,272.40
Government grants include:
committed to export prescribed times of the duty saved on import of capital goods over a specified period of time. In case such commitments are
not met, the Company would be required to pay the duty saved along with interest to the regulatory authorities.
(ii) `3,901.33 crores as at March 31, 2021 (`3,269.11 crores as at March 31, 2020) relating to Research and Development Expenditure Credit
(RDEC) on qualifying expenditure incurred since April 1, 2013.
33. REVENUE FROM OPERATIONS
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Sale of products (refer note 1 and 2 below) (i) Sale of vehicles 206,418.72 218,982.73 (ii) Sale of spare parts 24,419.08 24,099.47 (iii) Sale of miscellaneous products 8,711.60 8,315.24 Total Sale of products 239,549.40 251,397.44 (b) Sale of services 3,374.73 3,384.14 ( c) Finance revenues 4,048.04 3,812.78 246,972.17 258,594.36 (d) Other operating revenues 2,822.58 2,473.61 Total 249,794.75 261,067.97
Note:
Resilience and Rebound | 311

--- Page 281 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
34.OTHER INCOME
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Interest income 492.53 1,170.12 (b) Dividend income from investments measured at FVTOCI 18.37 21.13 ( c) Profit on sale of investments measured at FVTPL 194.24 187.34 (d) Incentives (refer note below) 1,918.14 1,983.61 (e) Fair value gain /(loss) on investments measured at FVTPL 19.91 (389.05) Total 2,643.19 2,973.15
Note:
`1,370.35 crores and `1,090.40 crores, for the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively received by foreign subsidiaries on Tax credit on
qualifying expenditure for research and development.
35. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Salaries, wages and bonus (refer note below) 21,611.09 24,290.30 (b) Contribution to provident fund and other funds 2,764.34 2,720.14 ( c) Staff welfare expenses 3,273.05 3,428.16 Total 27,648.48 30,438.60 Employee benefits expense for the year ended March 31, 2021 is net of Government grants received by certain subsidiary companies
amounting to `1,833.01 crores (£ 188.89 million).
The Company has alloted share based incentives to certain employees during the year ended March 31, 2019, under Tata Motors Limited
Employee Stock Options Scheme 2018, approved by Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC).
under this scheme include growth in sales, earnings and free cash flow. The options granted under this scheme is exercisable by employees
till one year from date of its vesting.
of grant up to 5 years from date of grant. Number of shares that will vest range from 0.5 to 1.5 per option granted depending on performance
measures.
The Company has estimated fair value of options granted during the year using Black Scholes model. The following assumptions were used
for calculation of fair value of options granted during the year ended March 31, 2021.
312 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 282 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
36. FINANCE COSTS
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Interest 8,405.10 7,680.29 Less: Interest capitalised* (1,136.17) (1,446.63) Add: Exchange fluctuation considered as interest cost - 56.34 7,268.93 6,290.00 (b) Discounting charges 828.24 953.33 Total 8,097.17 7,243.33
* Represents borrowing costs capitalized during the year on qualifying assets (property plant and equipment and product development).
The weighted average rate for capitalization of interest relating to general borrowings was approximately 5.26% and 5.51% for the years ended
March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
37. OTHER EXPENSES
(` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Processing charges 965.67 1,070.05 (b) Consumption of stores & spare parts 1,279.05 1,500.71 ( c) Power & fuel 1,112.87 1,264.95 (d) Information Technology (IT) related/Computer expenses 2,720.09 2,372.22 (e) Engineering expense 3,308.36 6,598.53 (f) MTM (gain)/loss on commodity derivatives (1,382.09) 688.18 (g) Warranty and product liability expenses * 7,609.02 10,884.59 (h) Freight, transportation, port charges etc. 5,715.79 6,484.39 (i) Publicity 4,384.63 7,614.24 (j) Allowances for trade and other receivables 20.69 102.59 (k) Allowances for finance receivables 957.93 660.21 (l) Works operation and other expenses (note below) 14,229.96 17,846.80 Total 40,921.97 57,08 7.46 * Net of estimated recovery from suppliers (484.92) (65.60)
Note:
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Works operation and other expenses :
(iii) All other fees* 8.17 5.67
TOTAL 79.72 76.61
* Includes `6.40 crores (`4.28 crores as at March 31, 2020) fees paid for issuance of Seniors Notes.
which is subject to approval of the shareholders, which the Company proposes to obtain in the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013.
Resilience and Rebound | 313

--- Page 283 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
38. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Defined Benefit Plan Pension and post retirement medical plans T he following table sets out the funded and unfunded status and the amounts recognized in the financial statements for the pension and the
post retirement medical plans in respect of Tata Motors, its Indian subsidiaries and joint operations:
2021 2020 2021 2020
Change in defined benefit obligations :
Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 1,337.41 1,308.46 184.49 168.98
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 1,231.31 1,128.22 - -
Amount recognized in the balance sheet consists of:
Net liability (103.18) (180.24) (184.49) (168.98)
Amounts in the balance sheet:
314 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 284 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Total amount recognized in other comprehensive income consists of:
101.93 150.10 (35.24) (41.31)
Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation in excess of plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets 112.49 1,091.60
Information for funded plans with a defined benefit obligation less than plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets 1,118.81 36.61
Information for unfunded plans:
Defined benefit obligation 139.40 131.97 184.49 168.98
Net pension and post retirement medical cost consist of the following components:
Resilience and Rebound | 315

--- Page 285 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognized in other comprehensive income.
comprehensive income
The assumptions used in accounting for the pension and post retirement medical plans are set out below:
Plan Assets
The fair value of Company’s pension plan asset as of March 31, 2021 and 2020 by category are as follows:
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Asset category:
to other exposure limitations. The Company evaluates the risks, transaction costs and liquidity for potential investments. To measure plan
asset performance, the Company compares actual returns for each asset category with published bench marks.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2021 is 13.05 years (2020 : 13.97 years)
The Company expects to contribute `100.94 crores to the funded pension plans in the year ending March 31, 2022.
316 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 286 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/increase
of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation and health care cost:
The following tables set out the funded status of the defined benefit provident fund plan of Tata Motors limited and the amounts recognized
in the Company’s financial statements.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Change in benefit obligations:
Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 4,559.65 4,076.38
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets at the end 4,470.21 4,058.50
Amount recognized in the balance sheet consists of:
Resilience and Rebound | 317

--- Page 287 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Total amount recognised in other comprehensive income consists of:
84.18 18.03
Net periodic cost for Provident Fund consist of the following components:
Net periodic cost 140.02 127.78
Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognised in other comprehensive income.
Total recognised in statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income 206.16 145.81
The assumptions used in determining the present value obligation of the Provident Fund is set out below:
Remaining term to maturity of portfolio 26.77 26.91
The breakup of the plan assets into various categories is as follows:
318 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 288 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The asset allocation for plan assets is determined based on investment criteria prescribed under the relevant regulations.
As at March 31, 2021, the defined benefit obligation would be affected by approximately `168.85 crores on account of a 0.5% decrease in
the expected rate of return on plan assets.
The Company expects to contribute `143.30 crores to the defined benefit provident fund plan in the year ending March 31, 2022.
Severance indemnity plan
Severance indemnity is a funded plan of Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicles Limited (TDCV), a subsidiary of Tata Motors Limited.
The following table sets out, the amounts recognized in the financial statements for the severance indemnity plan.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Change in defined benefit obligation:
Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 311.08 284.75
Change in plan assets:
Fair value of plan assets, end of the year 265.06 231.73
Amount recognized in the balance sheet consist of:
Net liability (46.02) (53.02)
Amounts in the balance sheet:
Non- current liabilities (46.02) (53.02)
Total amount recognized in other comprehensive income for severance indemnity consists of:
Resilience and Rebound | 319

--- Page 289 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Net severance indemnity cost consist of the following components:
Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligation recognized in other comprehensive income for severance indemnity
plan:
Total recognized in statement of operations and other comprehensive income 30.85 7.80
The assumptions used in accounting for the Severance indemnity plan is set out below:
The table below outlines the effect on the service cost, the interest cost and the defined benefit obligation in the event of a decrease/increase
of 1% in the assumed rate of discount rate, salary escalation rate:
Decrease by 1% Decrease by `37.87 crores Decrease by `13.00 crores
Severance indemnity plans asset allocation by category is as follows:
320 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 290 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at March 31, 2021 is 10.79 years (2020 : 11.05 years)
The Company expects to contribute `3.24 crores to the funded severance indemnity plans in the year ending March 31, 2022.
Jaguar Land Rover Ltd UK, have pension arrangements providing employees with defined benefits related to pay and service as set out in
the rules of each fund.
policy with regard to the assets of the schemes and all other governance matters. The board of trustees must be composed of representatives
of the Company and plan participants in accordance with the plan’s regulations.
Through its defined benefit pension plans the Company is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below :
to the corporate bonds discount rate, this will create or increase a deficit. The defined benefit plans hold a significant proportion of equity
type assets, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term.
As the plans mature, the Company intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that better match the liabilities.
However, the Company believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities and the strength of the supporting group, a level of
continuing equity type investments is an appropriate element of the Company’s long term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this is expected to be partially offset by an increase in the value of
the plans’ bond holdings and interest rate hedging instruments.
of assets in index linked gilts, together with other inflation hedging instruments and also assets which are more closely correlated with
inflation. However an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit to some degree.
Resilience and Rebound | 321

--- Page 291 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Life expectancy The majority of the plan’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plan’s liabilities. This is particularly significant in the UK defined benefit plans, where inflationary increases result in higher
sensitivity to changes in life expectancy.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Change in defined benefit obligation:
Defined benefit obligation, end of the year 84,961.96 72,842.15
Change in plan assets:
(3,890.50) 3,562.27
Amount recognized in the balance sheet consist of:
322 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 292 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Total amount recognized in other comprehensive income (` in crores) Pension benefits As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Remeasurements (gains) / losses (748.98) (8,035.20) (748.98) (8,035.20)
Net pension and post retirement cost consist of the following components:
Total recognized in statement of profit and loss and other comprehensive income 8,890.05 (7,364.32)
The assumptions used in accounting for the pension plans are set out below:
For the valuation as at March 31, 2021, the mortality assumptions used are the Self- Administered Pension Schemes (“SAPS”) table, in
particular S2PxA tables and the Light Table for members of the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan.
For the Jaguar Pension Plan, scaling factor of 111% to 117% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 101% to 112% have
been used for female members.
For the Land Rover Pension Scheme, scaling factor of 107% to 111% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 101% to 109%
have been used for female members.
For the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan, an average scaling factor of 94% has been used for male members and an average scaling factor of
84% has been used for female members.
Resilience and Rebound | 323

--- Page 293 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements For the valuation as at March 31, 2020, the mortality assumptions used are the SAPS table, in particular S2PxA tables and the Light Table
for members of the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan.
For the Jaguar Pension Plan, scaling factor of 111% to 117% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 101% to 112% have
been used for female members.
For the Land Rover Pension Scheme, scaling factor of 107% to 111% have been used for male members and scaling factor of 101% to 109%
have been used for female members.
For the Jaguar Executive Pension Plan, an average scaling factor of 94% has been used for male members and an average scaling factor of
84% has been used for female members.
on 20 November 2020, that provided clarification on the obligations of pension plan trustees to equalise past transfer values allowing for the
effect of unequal Guaranteed Minimum Pensions (‘GMP’) between May 17, 1990 and April 5, 1997 (“GMP equalisation”).
A further past service cost of `67.93 crores was also recognised in the year ended 31 March 2021. This reflects benefit improvements for
certain members as part of the Group restructuring programme that commenced in the year ended March 31, 2021.
A past service cost of `37.41 crores was recognised in the year ended March 31, 2020. This reflects benefit improvements for certain
members as part of the Group restructuring programme thatcommenced in the year ended March 31, 2019.
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
Retiring today :
Females 23.3 23.2
Retiring in 20 years :
324 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 294 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Pension plans asset allocation by category is as follows:
Property Funds
UK - 3,058.23 3,058.23 - 2,553.49 2,553.49
Other - 2,020.35 2,020.35 - 2,235.48 2,235.48 - 5,078.58 5,078.58 - 4,788.97 4,788.97 Cash and cash equivalents 2,673.31 - 2,673.31 6,344.53 - 6,344.53 Other Hedge Funds - 4,993.94 4,993.94 - 4,442.89 4,442.89 Private Markets - 8,303.08 8,303.08 - 5,256.64 5,256.64 Alternatives 574.36 5,889.75 6,464.11 - 5,555.96 5,555.96 574.36 19,186.77 19,761.13 - 15,255.49 15,255.49 Derivatives Foreign exchange contracts - 152.16 152.16 - (336.72) (336.72) Interest Rate and inflation swaps - 3,632.60 3,632.60 - 5,097.64 5,097.64 Equity protection derivatives - 483.67 483.67 - 486.38 486.38 - 4,268.43 4,268.43 - 5,247.30 5,247.30 Total 40,714.31 40,357.15 81,071.46 40,842.56 35,561.86 76,404.42
*determined on the basis of quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
table above. The value of the funding obligation for the Repo transactions is `20,727.47 crores at March 31, 2021 (2020: `24,683.78 crores,
2019: `14,292.09 crores).
method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the consolidated
balance sheet.
The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to previous periods.
last valuation date and March 31 , 2021. Given the movements in listed equity markets, the valuation of Private Equity holdings may vary
significantly. The value of the Private Equity holdings in the JLR UK Plans included above is `4,564.58 crores as at March 31 , 2021.
Jaguar Land Rover contributes towards the UK defined benefit schemes. The April 5, 2018 valuations were completed in December 2018.
Resilience and Rebound | 325

--- Page 295 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements to recognise an additional obligation in the future. JLR has taken legal advice considering the documentation of the UK schemes and the regulatory environment. This confirmed the recoverability of any surplus in the scheme and JLR has based its accounting judgement on this
advice.
In line with the schedule of contributions agreed following the 2018 statutory funding valuations and amended in April 2020, the current
ongoing Group contribution rate for defined benefit accrual is c.21 per cent of pensionable salaries in the UK.
The average duration of the benefit obligation at March 31, 2021 is 19 years (2020: 19 years).
The expected net periodic pension cost for the year ended March 31, 2022 is expected to be `1.541.71 crores. The Group expects to pay
`2,478.83 crores to its defined benefit schemes, in total, for the year ended March 31, 2022.
`251.91 crores per year until March 31, 2028. In addition, contributions previously due for April, May and June 2020 have been re-spread
over FY22. This agreement is reflected in an updated Schedule of Contributions dated April 29, 2020.
The Company’s contribution to defined contribution plans aggregated `1,509.05 crores, `1,030.55 crores for years ended March 31, 2021
and 2020, respectively.
39. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
I n the ordinary course of business, the Company faces claims and assertions by various parties. The Company assesses such claims and assertions and monitors the legal environment on an ongoing basis, with the assistance of external legal counsel, wherever necessary. The Company records a liability for any claims where a potential loss is probable and capable of being estimated and discloses such matters in its financial statements, if material. For potential losses that are considered possible, but not probable, the Company provides disclosure in
the financial statements but does not record a liability in its accounts unless the loss becomes probable.
of the contingencies described below would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows.
T he Company is involved in legal proceedings, both as plaintiff and as defendant. There are claims which the Company does not believe to be
of material nature, other than those described below.
expenses, the tax treatment of certain expenses claimed by the Company as deductions and the computation of, or eligibility of, the Company’s
use of certain tax incentives or allowances.
M ost of these disputes and/or disallowances, being repetitive in nature, have been raised by the income tax authorities consistently in most
of the years.
appeal to the Bombay High Court or the Hon’ble Supreme Court against adverse decisions by the appellate authorities for matters involving
substantial question of law. The income tax authorities have similar rights of appeal.
`7.82 crores in respect of equity accounted investees (`602.77 crores, which includes `77.23 crores in respect of equity accounted investees
as at March 31, 2020).
of the Company’s products and denied the Company’s claims of Central Value Added Tax, or CENVAT, credit on inputs. The details of the
demands for more than `100 crores are as follows:
the Company, which the Excise Authorities claim requires the payment of the National Calamity Contingent Duty (NCCD). The Company has
obtained a technical expert certificate on the classification. The appeal is pending before the Custom Excise & Service Tax Appellate Tribunal.
326 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 296 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Sales Tax T he total sales tax demands (including interest and penalty), that are being contested by the Company amount to `1,421.98 crores, which includes `8.96 crores in respect of equity accounted investees as at March 31, 2021 (`963.56 crores, which includes `9.64 crores in respect
of equity accounted investees, as at March 31, 2020). The details of the demands for more than `100 crores are as follows:
years The Company has contended that the benefit cannot be denied on technicalities, which are being complied with. The matter is pending
at various levels.
by Vendors, incorrect method of calculation of set off as per the department, alleging suppression of sales as per the department etc. The
matter is contested in appeal.
T he Sales Tax Authorities have raised demand for Check Post/ Entry Tax liability at various states amouting to `434.59 crores as at March
31, 2021 (`65.81 crores as at March 31, 2020). The Company is contesting this issue.
Company’s manufacturing plant dispatching chassis for enroot body building to bodybuilders as bill to the Company and ship to bodybuilders
is constituted as export sale after Chassis export. The matter is contested in appeal.
accounted investees as at March 31, 2021 (`723.57 crores, which includes `16.72 crores in respect of equity accounted investees, as at March 31,
2020).
motor accident claims, product liability claims and consumer complaints. Some of the cases also relate to the replacement of parts of vehicles and/
or the compensation for deficiencies in the services by the Company or its dealers.
periods, if any, is not ascertainable reliably and consequently no financial effect has been provided for in the financial statements. The Company has
complied with this on a prospective basis, from the date of the SC order.
pension on last drawn salary. The Supreme Court has recalled its 2019 order which had paved way for pension on last drawn salary for employees
by removing the current salary ceiling of `15,000.
civil contracts of a capital nature amounting to `9,632.52 crores, as at March 31, 2021 (`12,634.91 crores as at March 31, 2020), which are yet to be
executed.
The Company has entered into various contracts with vendors and contractors for the acquisition of intangible assets of a capital nature amounting to
`251.06 crores as at March 31, 2021, (`259.79 crores as at March 31, 2020), which are yet to be executed.
crores as at March 31, 2020) has been contributed as at March 31, 2021. As at March 31, 2021, the Company has an outstanding commitment of
`1,701.44 crores (`1,619.98 crores as at March 31, 2020).
The Company has contractual obligation towards Purchase Commitment for `23,766.43 crores as at March 31, 2021 (`19,165.64 crores as on March
31, 2020).
Resilience and Rebound | 327

--- Page 297 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
40. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Company’s capital management is intended to create value for shareholders by facilitating the meeting of long-term and short-term goals of the
Company.
plans. The funding requirements are met through equity, convertible and non-convertible debt securities, senior notes and other long-term/short-
term borrowings. The Company’s policy is aimed at combination of short-term and long-term borrowings.
The Company monitors the capital structure on the basis of total debt to equity ratio and maturity profile of the overall debt portfolio of the Company.
Total debt includes all long and short-term debts as disclosed in notes 26, 27 and 29 to the consolidated financial statements. Equity comprises all
components excluding (profit)/loss on cash flow hedges and foreign currency translation reserve.
The following table summarizes the capital of the Company:
Total capital (Debt + Equity) 183,565.60 181,897.89
* Details of equity :
328 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 298 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
41. DISCLOSURE ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
T his section gives an overview of the significance of financial instruments for the Company and provides additional information on balance
sheet items that contain financial instruments.
The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities
as at March 31, 2021.
Total 1,450.16 3,029.45 229,973.10 234,452.71 230,202.17
Note:
1 Inculdes `7,900.02 crores designated as hedged item in fair value hedge relationaship. This includes a loss of `10.08 crores on
account of fair value changes attributable to the hedged interest rate risk.
Resilience and Rebound | 329

--- Page 299 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The following table presents the carrying amounts and fair value of each category of financial assets and liabilities as at March 31, 2020.
Total 2,514.25 5,022.23 204,919.48 212,455.96 203,172.29
Note:
1 Inculdes `8,333.93 crores designated as hedged item in fair value hedge relationaship. This includes a loss of `422.03 crores on account of
fair value changes attributable to the hedged interest rate risk.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into
Level 1 to Level 3, as described below.
(unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. This category consists quoted equity shares, quoted corporate debt instruments
and mutual fund investments.
than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e; as prices) or indirectly (i.e; derived from
prices). This level of hierarchy includes Company’s over-the-counter (OTC) derivative contracts.
based on assumptions that are neither supported by prices from observable current market transactions in the same instrument nor are they
based on available market data. The main items in this category are investments in certain unquoted debentures and equity.
330 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 300 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) As at March 31, 2021 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at fair value (a) Investments 3,471.74 - 868.91 4,340.65 (b) Derivative assets - 6,112.64 - 6,112.64 ( c) Finance receivables - - 7,988.89 7,988.89 Total 3,471.74 6,112.64 8,857.80 18,442.18 Financial liabilities measured at fair value (a) Derivative laibilities - 4,479.61 - 4,479.61 Total - 4,479.61 - 4,479.61 Costs of certain unquoted equity instruments have been considered as an appropriate estimate of fair value because these investments are subject to a wide range of possible fair value measurements and cost represents the best estimate of fair value within that range. These investments in equity instruments are not held for trading. Instead, they are held for medium or long-term strategic purpose. Upon the application of Ind AS 109, the Company has chosen to designate these investments in equity instruments as at FVTOCI as the management believe that this provides a more
meaningful presentation for medium or long-term strategic investments, than reflecting changes in fair value in profit or loss.
prevailing market interest rate curves. Option contracts are fair valued using standard options pricing methodology, based on prevailing market
interest rates and volatality.
Total - 7,536.48 - 7,536.48
There have been no transfers between level 1, level 2 and level 3 for the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020.
Resilience and Rebound | 331

--- Page 301 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The following table provides an analysis of fair value of financial instruments that are not measured at fair value on recurring basis, grouped into
Level 1 to Level 3 categories:
Total 34,715.69 74,600.42 - 109,316.11
Other short-term financial assets and liabilities are stated at amortized cost which is approximately equal to their fair value.
at March 31, 2021 and 2020. Since significant unobservable inputs are applied in measuring the fair value, finance receivables are classified in
Level 3.
value is estimated by discounting expected future cash flows, using a discount rate equivalent to the risk-free rate of return, adjusted for the credit
spread considered by the lenders for instruments of similar maturity and credit quality.
of all the amounts that the Company could have realized or paid in sale transactions as of respective dates. As such, the fair value of the financial
instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates may be different from the amounts reported at each year end.
332 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 302 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Offsetting Certain financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to offsetting where there is currently a legally enforceable right to set off recognized
amounts and the Company intends to either settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability, simultaneously.
Certain derivative financial assets and financial liabilities are subject to master netting arrangements, whereby in the case of insolvency, derivative
financial assets and financial liabilities with the same countries will be settled on a net basis.
The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset, in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available
for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2021:
The following table discloses the amounts that have been offset in arriving at the balance sheet presentation and the amounts that are available
for offset only under certain conditions as at March 31, 2020:
Resilience and Rebound | 333

--- Page 303 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Transfer of financial assets T he Company transfers finance receivables through securitisation transactions and direct assignments. In such transactions the Company surrenders control over the receivables, though it continues to act as an agent for the collection of receivables. Generally in such transactions,
the Company also provides credit enhancements to the transferee.
does not meet the derecognition criteria, resulting in the transfer not being recorded as sale. Consequently, the proceeds received from such
transfers are recorded as collateralized debt obligations.
due to existence of the recourse arrangement. Consequently the proceeds received from such transfers with a recourse arrangements are
recorded as loans from banks / financial institutions and classified under short-term borrowings.
The carrying amount of trade receivables and finance receivables transferred along with the associated liabilities is as follows:
(b) Finance receivables 3,008.431 2,972.16 4,257.371 4,228.24
1 Net of provision of `53.49 crores and `49.38 crores as at March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
instruments in a cash flow hedging relationship to hedge the changes in future cash flows as a result of foreign currency risk arising from
future anticipated sales.
the financial risks of the Company. These contracts do not meet the hedge accounting criteria of Ind AS 109, hence the change in fair value
of these derivatives are recognized in the statement of Profit and Loss.
cost of hedge and accordingly changes in fair value attributable to this is recognized in cost of hedge reserve to the extent they relate to the
hedged item.
when the forecasted transactions affects profit or loss occur. The accumulated gain/losses in hedge reserve and cost of hedge reserve are
expected to be recognized in consolidated statement of profit or loss during the years ending March 31, 2021 to 2025.
It is anticipated that the hedged sales will take place over the next one to five years, at which time the amount deferred in equity will be
reclassified to revenue in the consolidated statement of profit or loss.
subsequently recognised in inventory will be reclassified to raw materials, components, and consumables in the consolidated statement of
profit or loss.
334 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 304 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) As at As at March 31,2021 March 31,2020 Fair value gain/(loss) on foreign currency derivative contracts entered for cash flow hedges of forecast 6,131.84 (2,926.97) sales recognized in hedging reserve Fair value gain/(loss) on foreign currency derivative contracts entered for cash flow hedges of forecast (1,797.52) 695.35 inventory purchases recognized in hedging reserve Fair value gain/(loss) on foreign currency bonds designated as cash flow hedges of - (61.83) forecast sales recognised in hedging reserve Fair value gain/(loss) on derivatives entered for cash flow hedges of repayment of foreign currency 29.41 (81.89) denominated borrowings recognized in hedging reserve Fair value gain/(loss) on interest rate swaps entered for cash flow hedges of payment of interest on (19.21) (152.89) borrowings benchmarked to LIBOR Fair value gain/(loss) recognized in other comprehensive income during the year 4,344.52 (2,528.23) Gain/(loss) reclassified from Hedging reserve and recognized in 'Revenue from operations' in the (980.14) (4,814.06) statement of profit and loss on occurrence of forecast sales Gain/(loss) reclassified out of Hedging reserve and recorded in Inventory in the Balance sheet on (130.04) 270.97 occurrence of forecast purchases Gain/(loss) reclassified from Hedging reserve and recognized in 'Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)' 30.11 14.78 in the statement of profit and loss for the case where on account of forecast transactions no longer expected to occur Gain/(loss) reclassified from Hedging reserve and recognized in 'Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)' in (144.80) 120.35 the statement of profit and loss on account of repayment of foreign currency denominated borrowings Gain/(loss) reclassified from Cost of Hedge reserve and recognized in 'Foreign exchange (gain)/loss - - (net)' in the statement of profit and loss on account of forecast transactions no longer expected to occur Gain/(loss) reclassified from equity other comprehensive income to the consolidated statement (1,224.87) (4,407.96) of profit or loss Gain/(loss) on foreign currency derivatives not hedge accounted, recognized in 'Foreign exchange (840.74) 531.84 (gain)/loss (net)' in the statement of profit and loss Fair value gain/(loss) recognized in 'Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net)' in the statement of profit and (94.13) (7.52) loss on account of ineffectiveness arising from foreign currency basis spread on forward contracts designated in cash flow hedge relationship (934.87) 524.32 (d) Financial risk management I n the course of its business, the Company is exposed primarily to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, equity
prices, liquidity and credit risk, which may adversely impact the fair value of its financial instruments.
T he Company has a risk management policy which not only covers the foreign exchange risks but also other risks associated with the
financial assets and liabilities such as interest rate risks and credit risks. The risk management policy is approved by the board of directors.
The risk management framework aims to:
• Create a stable business planning environment by reducing the impact of currency and interest rate fluctuations on the Company’s
business plan.
• Achieve greater predictability to earnings by determining the financial value of the expected earnings in advance.
currency exchange rates, equity price fluctuations, liquidity and other market changes. Future specific market movements cannot be
normally predicted with reasonable accuracy.
(a) Foreign currency exchange rate risk:
cosolidated statement of cash flows, where any transaction references more than one currency or where assets/liabilities are
denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the respective consolidated entities.
renminbi, Japanese yen, Singapore dollar and Euro, against the respective functional currencies of Tata Motors Limited and its
subsidiaries.
Resilience and Rebound | 335

--- Page 305 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The Company, as per its risk management policy, uses foreign exchange and other derivative instruments primarily to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate exposure. Furthermore, any movement in the functional currencies of the various operations of the Company against major foreign currencies may impact the Company’s revenues and expenditure relating to its international operations. Any weakening of the functional currency may impact the Company’s cost of imports and cost of borrowings and
consequently may increase the cost of financing the Company’s capital expenditures.
The Company evaluates the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuations by assessing its exposure to exchange rate risks.
a currency and a simultaneous parallel foreign exchange rates shift in the foreign exchange rates of each currency by 10% while
keeping the other variables as constant.
entities. Furthermore, the exposure as indicated below is mitigated by natural hedges resulting from anticipated revenue and cost
in foreign currency expected to arise in future as well as certain derivative contracts entered into by the Company.
The following table sets forth information relating to foreign currency exposure other than risk arising from derivatives contract
as of March 31, 2021:
1 Others mainly include currencies such as the Russian rouble, Singapore dollars, Swiss franc, Australian dollars, South African
rand, Thai baht, Japanese Yen and Korean won.
The table below outlines the effect change in foreign currencies exposure for the year ended March 31, 2021:
Depreciation in foreign currencies by 10% Decrease by `(3,687.33) crores Increase by `11,331.23 crores
(Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before tax basis).
The following table set forth information relating to foreign currency exposure (other than risk arising from derivatives) as of
March 31, 2020:
Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in market interest rates will lead to changes in fair value of financial instruments or
changes in interest income, expense and cash flows of the Group.
is mainly related to debt obligations. The Company also uses a mix of interest rate sensitive financial instruments to manage the
liquidity and fund requirements for its day to day operations like short term non-convertible bonds and short term loans.
also for certain part of the portfolio, the Company does not match funding with maturities, in order to take advantage of market
opportunities.
The Company also enters into arrangements of securitization of receivables in order to reduce the impact of interest rate
movements. Further, Company also enters into interest rate swap contracts with banks to manage its interest rate risk.
336 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 306 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements As at March 31, 2021 and 2020 financial liabilities of `46,589.38 crores and `45,021.15 crores respectively, were subject to variable interest rates. Increase/decrease of 100 basis points in interest rates at the balance sheet date would result in an impact (decrease/increase of profit before tax) of `465.89 crores and `450.21 crores on income for the year ended March 31, 2021 and
2020, respectively.
rates. Also, the interest rates on some types of assets and liabilities may fluctuate with changes in market interest rates, while
interest rates on other types of assets may change with a lag.
assumes that the change occurs at the balance sheet date and has been calculated based on risk exposures outstanding as at that
date. The period end balances are not necessarily representative of the average debt outstanding during the period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
foreign currency denominated debt. The Company also uses cross currency interest rate swaps to convert some of its foreign
currency denominated fixed rate debt to floating rate debt.
( c) Equity Price risk
Equity Price Risk is related to the change in market reference price of the investments in equity securities.
T he fair value of some of the Company’s investments in equity securities exposes the Company to equity price risks. In general,
these securities are not held for trading purposes. These investments are subject to changes in the market price of securities.
2020, was `499.37 crores and `158.68 crores, respectively. A 10% change in prices of these securities held as of March 31, 2021
and 2020, would result in a pre-tax impact of `49.94 crores and `15.87 crores on equity, respectively.
2020, was `Nil and `157.78 crores,respectively. A 10% change in prices of these securities measured at FVTPL held as of March
31, 2021 and 2020, would result in an impact of `Nil and `15.78 crores on profit before tax, respectively.
or obligations. Credit risk encompasses both the direct risk of default and the risk of deterioration of creditworthiness as well as
concentration risks.
and reduce concerns about collection due to a deterioration in the financial conditions and others of its main counterparties by regularly
monitoring their situation based on their financial condition.
None of the financial instruments of the Company result in material concentrations of credit risks.
balances with banks, short term deposits with banks, trade receivables, finance receivables, margin money and other financial assets
excluding equity investments.
other receivables, and other loans or receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there were no indications as at March 31, 2021,
and March 31,2020, that defaults in payment obligations will occur.
Resilience and Rebound | 337

--- Page 307 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Credit quality of financial assets and impairment loss T he ageing of trade receivables and finance receivables as of balance sheet date is given below. The age analysis have been considered
from the due date.
Trade receivables consist of a large number of various types of customers, spread across geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation
is performed on the financial condition of these trade receivables and where appropriate, allowance for losses are provided.
1 Trade receivables overdue more than six months include `538.91 crores as at March 31, 2021 (`471.35 crores as at March 31, 2020),
outstanding from Government organizations in India, which are considered recoverable.
circumstances as well as expected changes in collection future based on expectations future with respect to certain macro economic
factor like GDP growth, fuel price and inflation.
Total 35,962.59 (1,247.68) 34,714.91 31,730.45 (651.38) 31,079.07
2 Finance receivables originated in India.
3 Allowance in the “Not due” category includes allowance against instalments pertaining to impaired finance receivables which have
not yet fallen due.
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty to meet its financial obligations. The objective of liquidity risk
management is to maintain sufficient liquidity and ensure that funds are available for use as per requirements.
debentures (taken by the Company) falling due for repayment in the next 12 months in bank deposits, to meet the regulatory norms of
liquidity.
The Company also constantly monitors funding options available in the debt and capital markets with a view to maintaining financial
flexibility.
338 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 308 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The table below provides undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments as at March
31, 2021:
derecognition. The liability of the Company in such cases is limited to the extent of credit enhancements provided. The contractual
maturities of such collateralized debt obligations are as follows:
The table below provides details regarding the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments as
at March 31, 2020:
Total 212,455.96 124,868.14 25,240.71 58,848.91 25,764.18 234,721.94
The contractual maturities of such collateralized debt obligations are as follows:
T he Company has entered into variety of foreign currency, interest rates and commodity forward contracts and options to manage
its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price risk. The counterparty is generally a bank.
These financial exposures are managed in accordance with the Company’s risk management policies and procedures.
its fixed rate or variable rate debt. The Company uses interest rate derivatives or currency swaps to hedge exposure to exchange rate
fluctuations on principal and interest payments for borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
S pecific transactional risks include risks like liquidity and pricing risks, interest rate and exchange rate fluctuation risks, volatility risks,
counterparty risks, settlement risks and gearing risks.
F air value of derivative financial instruments are determined using valuation techniques based on information derived from observable
market data.
Resilience and Rebound | 339

--- Page 309 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is as follows:
Total 1,633.03 (2,854.02)
Following table provides sensitivity analysis in relation to derivative contracts:
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
10% depreciation of foreign currency:
Gain/(loss) in statement of Profit and loss (2,258.44) (1,023.32)
10% Appreciation of foreign currency:
and palladium. This risk is mitigated through the use of derivative contracts and fixed-price contracts with suppliers. The derivative
contracts are not hedge accounted under Ind AS 119 but are instead measured at fair value through profit or loss.
T he gain/(loss) on commodity derivative contracts, recognized in the statement of Profit and Loss was `1,382.09 crores loss and
`688.18 crores loss for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
contracts, would have resulted in an approximate gain/(loss) of `397.87 crores and `458.32 crores in the statement of profit and loss
for the years ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively.
E xposure to gain/loss on derivative instruments offset to some extent the exposure to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk as
disclosed above.
(Note: The impact is indicated on the income/loss before consequential tax impact,if any basis).
340 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 310 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 42. DISCLOSURE ON FINANCIALS INSTRUMENTS DESIGNATED AS HEDGING INSTRUMENT IN CASHFLOW HEDGE The details of cash flow hedges entered by the Company to hedge interest rate risk arising on floating rate borrowings and by one of the Company’s subsidiaries to hedge the currency fluctuation of its functional currency (GBP) against foreign currencies to hedge future cash
flows arising from revenue and cost of materials is as follows:
Resilience and Rebound | 341

--- Page 311 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Average strike rate Nominal amounts Carrying value (USD in million) (` in crores) As at As at As at As at As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Interest rate swaps linked to LIBOR >5 years 2.86% 2.86% 237.50 237.50 (152.93) (219.08) Total derivatives designated in hedge 1,685.80 (2,295.47) relationship Non derivatives designated in hedge relationship Average strike rate Nominal amounts Carrying value (GBP in million) (` in crores) As at As at As at As at As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Net Investment Hedge - GBP - - 625.00 - - -
43. SEGMENT REPORTING
The Company primarily operates in the automotive business. The automotive business includes all activities relating to development, design, manufacture, assembly and sale of vehicles including financing thereof, as well as sale of related parts, accessories and services. The Company provides financing for vehicles sold by dealers in India. The vehicle financing is intended to drive sale of vehicles by providing financing to the dealers’ customers and as such is an integral part of automotive business. The operating results for Vehicle Financing has
been adjusted only for finance cost for the borrowings sourced by this segment.
Operating segments consist of :
a) A utomotive: The Automotive segment consists of four reportable sub-segments: Tata Commercial Vehicles, Tata Passenger Vehicles,
Jaguar Land Rover and Vehicle Financing.
b) Others: Others consist of IT services and Insurance Broking services.
These segment information is provided to and reviewed by Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM).
342 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 312 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Resilience and Rebound | 343 stnemetatS laicnaniF detadilosnoC fo traP gnimroF setoN 1202 ,13 hcraM ta sa/dedne raey eht roF )serorc ni `( ytivitca detaler dna evitomotuA -retnI -artnI 1 elcihev dnarb rehto dna ataT latoT tnemges srehtO dnaL raugaJ elciheV snoitanimile latoT tnemges revoR gnicnaniF latoT elbacollanU regnessaP laicremmoC snoitanimile elcihev elcihev :seuneveR 57.497,942 - 37.316,1 20.181,842 - 17.228,391 88.672,4 34.180,05 84.751 42.606,61 17.713,33 eunever lanretxE - )37.899( 37.899 - )82.521( - 75.312 )92.88( 82.521 - )75.312( eunever tnemges-artni/tnemges-retnI 57.497,942 )37.899( 64.216,2 20.181,842 )82.521( 17.228,391 54.094,4 41.399,94 67.282 42.606,61 41.401,33 seunever latoT 17.629,8 07.66 74.913 45.045,8 - 30.196,7 00.497,2 )94.449,1( )98.47( )61.465,1( )44.503( gnidulcxe( emocni rehto erofeb sgninraE egnahcxe ngierof ,stsoc ecnanif ,)sevitnecnI : xat dna smeti lanoitpecxe ,)ten( )ssol(/niag )54.158,2( - - )54.158,2( - - )54.158,2( - - - - sgniworrob ot gniniatrep stsoc ecnaniF tnemges gnicnanif elcihev yb decruos 62.570,6 07.66 74.913 90.986,5 - 30.196,7 )54.75( )94.449,1( )98.47( )61.465,1( )44.503( stluser tnemgeS :xat erofeb tiforP ot noitailicnoceR 50.527 )sevitnecnI gnidulcxe( )ssol(/emocni rehtO )27.542,5( ot gniniatrep gnidulcxe( stsoc ecnaniF gnicnanif elcihev yb decruos sgniworrob )tnemges 51.237,1 egnahcxe ngieroF )20.167,31( - )14.5( )16.557,31( - )07.053,51( - 90.595,1 )69.42( 17.376,1 )66.35( smeti lanoitpecxE )82.474,01( xat erofeb tiforP 17.645,32 )11.621( 26.69 02.675,32 - 07.147,91 63.16 41.377,3 94.751 91.419,1 64.107,1 esnepxe noitasitroma dna noitaicerpeD 75.827,81 - )81.93( 57.767,81 - 95.982,61 15.76 56.014,2 )42.86( 87.228 11.656,1 erutidnepxe latipaC )69.873( - 40.52 )00.404( - )23.363( - )86.04( )86.04( - - detnuocca ytiuqe fo )ssol(/tiforp fo erahS )ten( seetsevni 57.485,562 )98.962,1( 85.774,2 60.773,462 - 05.143,971 55.565,93 10.074,54 81.680,2 19.692,61 29.680,72 stessa tnemgeS 08.022 - - 08.022 - 08.022 08.022 elas rof dleh sa deifissalc stessA 97.002,4 - 21.195 76.906,3 - 35.281,3 - 41.724 41.724 - - seetsevni detnuocca ytiuqe ni tnemtsevnI :stessa latot ot noitailicnoceR 94.914,02 stnemtsevnI rehtO 16.868,1 )ten( stessa xat tnerruc-non dna tnerruC 53.025,4 )ten( stessa xat derrefeD 10.113,64 2 stessa laicnanif detacollanu rehtO 08.521,343 stessa latoT 23.576,141 )74.172( 64.805,1 33.834,041 - 02.024,411 23.738 18.081,52 61.601,1 88.530,6 77.830,81 seitilibail tnemgeS :seitilibail latot ot noitailicnoceR 15.409,531 sgniworroB 44.680,1 )ten( seitilibail xat tnerruC 98.555,1 )ten( seitilibail xat derrefeD 34.380,6 3 seitilibail laicnanif detacollanu rehtO 95.503,682 seitilibail latoT .selcihev dnarb taiF dna ooweaD ataT edulcni selcihev dnarb rehto dna ataT 1 .emocni tseretni deurcca dna stisoped gniraeb-tseretni sedulcnI 2 .seitilibail gniraeb tseretni rehto dna deurcca tseretni sedulcnI 3

--- Page 313 ---
Consolidated 344 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21 stnemetatS laicnaniF detadilosnoC fo traP gnimroF setoN 0202 ,13 hcraM ta sa/dedne raey eht roF )serorc ni `( ytivitca detaler dna evitomotuA -retnI -artnI 1selcihev dnarb rehto dna ataT latoT tnemges srehtO raugaJ elciheV latoT tnemges regnessaP laicremmocC snoitanimile revoR dnaL gnicnaniF latoT elbacollanU snoitanimile elcihev elcihev :seuneveR 79.760,162 - 43.677,1 36.192,952 - 20.040,802 94.592,4 21.659,64 49.441 47.184,01 44.923,63 eunever lanretxE - )37.072,1( 37.072,1 - )95.07( - - 95.07 95.07 - - eunever tnemges-artni/tnemges-retnI 79.760,162 )37.072,1( 70.740,3 36.192,952 )95.07( 20.040,802 94.592,4 17.620,74 35.512 47.184,01 44.923,63 seunever latoT 99.382 )34.55( 23.283 )09.24( - 50.495 17.458,2 )66.194,3( )68.552( )85.768,2( )22.863( gnidulcxe( emocni rehto erofeb sgninraE egnahcxe ngierof ,stsoc ecnanif ,)sevitnecnI : xat dna smeti lanoitpecxe ,)ten( )ssol(/niag )13.970,3( - - )13.970,3( - )13.970,3( - - - - sgniworrob ot gniniatrep stsoc ecnaniF tnemges gnicnanif elcihev yb decruos )23.597,2( )34.55( 23.283 )12.221,3( - 50.495 )06.422( )66.194,3( )68.552( )85.768,2( )22.863( stluser tnemgeS :xat erofeb tiforP ot noitailicnoceR 45.989 )sevitnecnI gnidulcxe(emocni rehtO )20.461,4( ot gniniatrep gnidulcxe( stsoc ecnaniF gnicnanif elcihev yb decruos sgniworrob )tnemges )47.837,1( )ten( )ssol(/niag egnahcxe ngieroF )44.178,2( - - )44.178,2( - )87.952( )03.9( )63.206,2( )19.51( )40.675,2( )14.01( smeti lanoitpecxE )89.975,01( xat erofeb tiforP 34.524,12 )54.96( 79.301 19.093,12 - 08.787,71 59.05 61.255,3 50.361 69.247,1 51.646,1 esnepxe noitasitroma dna noitaicerpeD 42.222,13 - )02.27( 44.492,13 - 70.161,62 16.17 67.160,5 43.624 72.552,2 51.083,2 erutidnepxe latipaC )00.000,1( - )71.72( )38.279( - )67.330,1( )49.1( 78.26 78.26 - - detnuocca ytiuqe fo )ssol(/tiforp fo erahS )ten( seetsevni 03.847,762 )96.493,1( 12.044,2 87.207,662 - 76.333,781 46.785,33 74.187,54 61.416,3 18.051,61 05.610,62 stessa tnemgeS 34.491 - - 34.491 - - - 34.491 34.491 - - elas rof dleh sa deifissalc stessA 98.814,4 - 75.565 23.358,3 - 63.483,3 - 69.864 69.864 - - seetsevni detnuocca ytiuqe ni tnemtsevnI :stessa latot ot noitailicnoceR 95.988,11 stnemtsevni rehtO 58.492,1 stessa xat emocni tnerruc-non dna tnerruC )ten( 09.754,5 )ten( sexat emocni derrefeD 03.711,13 2 stessa laicnanif detacollanu rehtO 62.121,223 stessa latoT 51.926,721 )89.033( 39.787 02.271,721 - 73.321,701 94.825 43.025,91 48.654,1 93.269,4 11.101,31 seitilibail tnemgeS :seitilibail latot ot noitailicnoceR 46.787,421 sgniworroB 41.040,1 )ten( seitilibail xat emocni tnerruC 78.149,1 )ten( sexat emocni derrefeD 73.038,2 3 seitilibail laicnanif detacollanu rehtO 71.922,852 seitilibail latoT .selcihev dnarb taiF dna ooweaD ataT edulcni selcihev dnarb rehto dna ataT 1 .emocni tseretni deurcca dna stisoped gniraeb-tseretni sedulcnI 2 .seitilibail gniraeb tseretni rehto dna deurcca tseretni sedulcnI 3

--- Page 314 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements Entity-wide disclosures
Information concerning principal geographic areas is as follows:
Year ended Year ended
Net sales to external customers by geographic area by location of customers:
Year ended Year ended
Information about product revenues:
Resilience and Rebound | 345

--- Page 315 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
44. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS
T he Company’s related parties principally includes Tata Sons Private Limited, subsidiaries and joint arrangements of Tata Sons Private Limited, the Company’s associates and their subsidiaries, joint operations and joint ventures of the Company. The Company routinely enters into transactions with these related parties in the ordinary course of business. Transactions and balances of the company with its own
subsidiaries and the transactions among subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation.
T he following table summarizes related-party transactions and balances included in the consolidated financial statements for the year
ended/as at March 31, 2021:
346 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 316 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements The following table summarizes related-party transactions included in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended as/at March
31, 2020:
Provision for amount receivables - 25.12 - - 25.12
Details of significant transactions are given below:
Resilience and Rebound | 347

--- Page 317 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
Compensation of key management personnel:
CEO and Managing Director from February 15, 2021 till June 30, 2021, which is subject to the approval of the Central Government and the
Shareholders. Remuneration for the period February 15, 2021 to March 31, 2021 of `1.89 crores included above is subject to the approval.
The remuneration of `11.82 crores for the year ended March 31, 2020 and the performance and long term incentives for that year was
subject to the approval of shareholders, which was approved in the Annual General Meeting held on August 25, 2020.
The compensation paid to the previous CEO of Jaguar Land Rover is `49.75 crores and `40.10 crores for the year ended March 31, 2021 and
2020 respectively. The compensation paid to the present CEO of Jaguar Land Rover for the year ended March 31, 2021 is `17.63 crores.
* Excludes provision for encashable leave and gratuity for certain key management personnel as a separate actuarial valuation is not
available.
Refer note 38 for information on transactions with post-employment benefit plans.
45. EARNINGS PER SHARE (“EPS”)
Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 (a) Profit / (Loss) for the period ` crores (13,451.39) (12,070.85) (b) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 3,128,268,742 2,952,353,090 ( c) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. 508,502,896 508,502,473 (d) The nominal value per share (Ordinary and 'A' Ordinary) ` 2.00 2.00 (e) Share of profit / (loss) for Ordinary shares for Basic EPS ` crores (11,570.58) (10,297.28) (f) Share of profit / (loss) for 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS* ` crores (1,880.81) (1,773.57) (g) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Basic) ` (36.99) (34.88) (h) Earnings Per 'A' Ordinary share (Basic) ` (36.99) (34.88) (i) Profit after tax for Diluted EPS ` crores # # (j) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. # # (k) Add: Adjustment for Options relating to warrants and shares held in abeyance Nos. # # (l) The weighted average number of Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. # # (m) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Basic EPS Nos. # # (n) Add: Adjustment for 'A' Ordinary shares held in abeyance Nos. # # (o) The weighted average number of 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS Nos. # # (p) Share of profit for Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS ` crores # # (q) Share of profit for 'A' Ordinary shares for Diluted EPS* ` crores # # ( r) Earnings Per Ordinary share (Diluted) ` (36.99) (34.88) (s) Earnings Per 'A' Ordinary share (Diluted) ` (36.99) (34.88) * ‘A’ Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive dividend at 5 percentage points more than the aggregate rate of dividend determined by Tata
Motors Limited on Ordinary shares for the financial year.
# Since there is a loss for the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, potential equity shares are not considered as dilutive and hence Diluted EPS is
same as Basic EPS.
Employee Stock options are not considered to be dilutive based on the average market price of ordinary shares during the period.
348 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 318 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements 46 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE III TO THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013, OF ENTERPRISES CONSOLIDATED AS SUBSIDIARY / ASSOCIATES /JOINT VENTURES (` in crores) Net Assets, i.e. total assets Share of other Share of total Share in profit or loss minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income As % of Name of enterprises As % of As % of As % of total Amount consolidated Amount Amount Amount consolidated consolidated comprehensive (`in crores) (profit) or (`in crores) (`in crores) (`in crores) net assets OCI income loss Parent Tata Motors Ltd 32.58% 17,997.77 19.98% (2,687.07) 15.05% 436.50 21.33% (2,250.57) Subsidiaries Indian TML Business Services (0.03)% (14.12) 0.06% (8.72) 0.01% 0.20 0.08% (8.52) Limited [name changed from Concorde Motors (India) Limited w.e.f March 31, 2020] Tata Motors Finance Ltd 7.25% 4,002.72 (1.86)% 250.12 7.31% 212.11 (4.38)% 462.23 Tata Technologies Ltd 1.58% 873.14 (0.80)% 108.20 0.08% 2.29 (1.05)% 110.49 Tata Motors Insurance 0.11% 62.13 (0.17)% 22.66 (0.01)% (0.42) (0.21)% 22.24 Broking & Advisory Services Ltd TML Distribution Company 0.67% 368.52 (0.06)% 7.49 0.00% 0.13 (0.07)% 7.63 Ltd TMF Holdings Limited 7.06% 3,901.24 0.82% (110.06) 0.00% 0.04 1.04% (110.02) Tata Motors Financial 2.84% 1,570.30 (1.61)% 216.24 (0.02)% (0.62) (2.04)% 215.62 Solutions Ltd Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd 0.11% 58.55 0.68% (91.30) 0.00% 0.11 0.86% (91.19) Jaguar Land Rover India 0.35% 190.89 (0.10)% 13.07 (0.46)% (13.45) 0.00% (0.38) Limited Brabo Robotics and (0.01)% (5.93) 0.25% (33.54) 0.00% 0.14 0.32% (33.40) Automation Limited JT Special Vehicles Pvt. 0.00% 1.91 (0.15)% 20.15 0.00% - (0.19)% 20.15 Limited (Ceased to be a JV and became a Wholly-
owned Subsidiary w.e.f.
Resilience and Rebound | 349

--- Page 319 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Net Assets, i.e. total assets Share of other Share of total Share in profit or loss minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income As % of Name of enterprises As % of As % of As % of total Amount consolidated Amount Amount Amount consolidated consolidated comprehensive (`in crores) (profit) or (`in crores) (`in crores) (`in crores) net assets OCI income loss Tata Hispano Motors (0.10)% (54.72) 0.05% (6.14) (0.13)% (3.73) 0.09% (9.87) Carroceries Maghreb Trilix S.r.l (0.05)% (29.83) (0.03)% 3.55 (0.05)% (1.58) (0.02)% 1.97 Tata Precision Industries 0.02% 13.70 (0.08)% 10.22 (0.00)% (0.07) (0.10)% 10.15 Pte Ltd PT Tata Motors Indonesia 0.53% 294.17 0.01% (0.84) (0.03)% (0.86) 0.02% (1.70) INCAT International Plc. 0.12% 67.90 0.01% (0.69) 0.23% 6.67 (0.06)% 5.98 Tata Technologies Inc. 0.74% 406.94 (0.45)% 59.96 (0.66)% (19.21) (0.39)% 40.75 Tata Technologies de 0.00% 2.55 0.01% (0.96) 0.11% 3.31 (0.02)% 2.35
Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
350 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 320 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Net Assets, i.e. total assets Share of other Share of total Share in profit or loss minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income As % of Name of enterprises As % of As % of As % of total Amount consolidated Amount Amount Amount consolidated consolidated comprehensive (`in crores) (profit) or (`in crores) (`in crores) (`in crores) net assets OCI income loss Jaguar Land Rover Pension 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - Trustees Limited Jaguar Cars South Africa 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - (Pty) Limited Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia 10.52% 5,813.35 (0.81)% 109.59 (9.41)% (272.92) 1.55% (163.33) s.r.o Jaguar Racing Limited 0.05% 27.87 (0.05)% 6.64 0.00% - (0.06)% 6.64 InMotion Ventures Limited (0.46)% (256.47) 0.03% (3.80) 0.00% - 0.04% (3.80) Lenny Insurance Limited (0.17)% (91.76) 0.57% (76.94) 0.00% - 0.73% (76.94) (Renamed as In-Car
Ventures Limited w.e.f.
(Shareholding reduced
from 100% to 15% w.e.f.
Resilience and Rebound | 351

--- Page 321 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Net Assets, i.e. total assets Share of other Share of total Share in profit or loss minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income As % of Name of enterprises As % of As % of As % of total Amount consolidated Amount Amount Amount consolidated consolidated comprehensive (`in crores) (profit) or (`in crores) (`in crores) (`in crores) net assets OCI income loss Shanghai Jaguar Land 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - Rover Automotive Services Company Limited Jaguar Land Rover 0.00% (0.67) (0.08)% 10.51 0.00% - (0.10)% 10.51 Columbia S.A.S Jaguar Land Rover 0.09% 51.01 (0.06)% 7.52 0.00% - (0.07)% 7.52
Mexico,S.A.P.I. de C.V.
Jaguar Land Rover 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% -
Servicios Mexico,S.A. de C.V.
Jaguar Land Rover France, 0.17% 95.25 (0.33)% 44.48 0.00% - (0.42)% 44.48
SAS
Jaguar Land Rover Portugal 0.12% 66.38 (0.05)% 6.66 0.00% - (0.06)% 6.66
- Veiculos e Pecas, Lda.
Jaguar Land Rover Espana 0.91% 502.67 0.00% (0.41) 0.19% 5.58 (0.05)% 5.17
SL
Jaguar Land Rover Italia 1.31% 725.13 (0.01)% 1.11 0.00% - (0.01)% 1.11 SpA Land Rover Ireland Limited 0.01% 4.93 0.00% (0.23) 0.00% - 0.00% (0.23) Jaguar Land Rover Korea 0.11% 59.00 (0.05)% 6.43 0.00% - (0.06)% 6.43 Company Limited Jaguar Land Rover 1.14% 629.76 (0.09)% 11.92 0.90% 26.03 (0.36)% 37.95 Deutschland GmbH Jaguar Land Rover Austria 0.16% 90.76 (0.06)% 8.53 0.00% - (0.08)% 8.53 GmbH Jaguar Land Rover Australia 0.83% 456.55 (0.85)% 113.84 0.00% - (1.08)% 113.84 Pty Limited Jaguar Land Rover North 7.57% 4,179.44 (4.64)% 624.01 0.01% 0.36 (5.92)% 624.37 America LLC Jaguar Land Rover Japan 0.62% 343.31 0.30% (40.52) 0.00% - 0.38% (40.52) Limited Jaguar Land Rover Canada 1.16% 643.11 (0.41)% 55.65 0.00% - (0.53)% 55.65
ULC
Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil 1.41% 778.13 (0.48)% 64.64 0.00% - (0.61)% 64.64 industria e Comercio de Veiculos LTDA Jaguar Land Rover Belux 0.16% 90.80 (0.07)% 9.52 0.00% - (0.09)% 9.52
NV
Jaguar Land Rover 0.09% 48.31 0.01% (1.31) 0.00% - 0.01% (1.31) Nederland BV Jaguar Land Rover (South 0.04% 24.03 (1.63)% 219.37 0.00% - (2.08)% 219.37 Africa) (Pty) Limited Jaguar Land Rover 0.07% 41.40 (0.08)% 10.55 0.00% - (0.10)% 10.55 Singapore Pte. Ltd Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan 0.07% 39.51 (0.23)% 31.60 0.00% - (0.30)% 31.60 Company Limited Jaguar Land Rover Classic 0.01% 3.58 0.04% (5.80) (0.01)% (0.17) 0.06% (5.97) Deutschland GmbH Jaguar Land Rover Hungary 0.02% 12.47 (0.06)% 8.61 (0.03)% (0.74) (0.07)% 7.88
KFT
352 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 322 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Net Assets, i.e. total assets Share of other Share of total Share in profit or loss minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income As % of Name of enterprises As % of As % of As % of total Amount consolidated Amount Amount Amount consolidated consolidated comprehensive (`in crores) (profit) or (`in crores) (`in crores) (`in crores) net assets OCI income loss Jaguar Land Rover Classic 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% -
USA LLC
Bowler Motors Limited 0.00% 0.77 0.06% (8.18) 0.00% - 0.08% (8.18) Jaguar Land Rover Ventures 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - Limited Jaguar Land Rover (Ningbo) 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - Trading Co. Limited Tata Daewoo Commercial 0.03% 16.23 0.01% (1.35) 0.02% 0.72 0.01% (0.63) Vehicle Sales and
Distribution Co. Ltd.
Resilience and Rebound | 353

--- Page 323 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (` in crores) Net Assets, i.e. total assets Share of other Share of total Share in profit or loss minus total liabilities comprehensive income comprehensive income As % of Name of enterprises As % of As % of As % of total Amount consolidated Amount Amount Amount consolidated consolidated comprehensive (`in crores) (profit) or (`in crores) (`in crores) (`in crores) net assets OCI income loss Associates (Investment as per the equity method) Indian Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd 0.45% 251.29 0.23% (30.31) 0.08% 2.24 0.27% (28.06) Automobile Corporation of 0.25% 138.25 0.04% (5.43) (0.01)% (0.36) 0.05% (5.80) Goa Ltd Tata Hitachi Construction 1.07% 591.76 (0.19)% 25.04 0.04% 1.14 (0.25)% 26.19 Machinery Company Private Ltd Loginomic Tech Solutions 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - Private Limited Foreign Nita Company Ltd 0.06% 33.69 0.04% (5.01) (0.04)% (1.02) 0.06% (6.03) Tata Precision Industries 0.01% 3.91 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - (India) Ltd Synaptiv Limited 0.00% 0.79 0.01% (0.77) 0.00% 0.11 0.01% (0.67) Jaguar Land Rover 0.02% 10.04 0.00% 0.15 (0.00)% 0.15 Switzerland AG(Jaguar Land Rover Limited increased its shareholding from 10% to 30% w.e.f. November 25, 2020) Cloud Car Inc 0.00% 0.19 0.00% - 0.11% 3.27 (0.03)% 3.27 DriveClubService Pte. Ltd. 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - 0.00% - Jaguar Cars Finance Limited 0.00% 2.68 0.00% - (0.02)% (0.49) 0.00% (0.50) Sub - total ( c ) 1,032.59 (16.48) 5.03 (11.45) Total ( b + c ) 4,200.79 (378.96) 153.02 (225.94) Total ( a + b + c) 100.00% 55,246.72 100.00% (13,451.39) 100.00% 2,900.19 100.00% (10,551.20) 354 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 324 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements
47. OTHER NOTES
(a) The following subsidiaries have been considered on unaudited basis. Details for the same as per individual entity’s
financials are as under :
March 31, 2021 March 31, 2021 during 2020-2021
(i) Subsidiaries :
(b) D uring the year ended March 31, 2021, exceptional charge of `14,994.30 crores was recognised under the Jaguar Land Rover’s
Reimagine strategy comprising following:
(i) Asset write-downs of £ 951.83 million (` 9,606.11 crores) in relation to models cancelled.
settle legal obligations on work performed to date and provisions for redundancies and other third party obligations and defined
benefit past service cost of £ 7.52 million (` 75.90 crores).
during the year ended March 31, 2021 based on new information and accordingly, a charge of `84.81 crores (£ 9.00 million) has been
recognised as an exceptional item.
(d) T he Company’s certain assets related to defence business are classified as “Held for Sale” as they meet the criteria laid out under Ind
AS 105. The transaction has been completed in April 2021.
accounting standards for material foreseeable losses on such long term contracts (including derivative contracts) has been made in
the books of account.
subject to certain closing conditions to be complied by both Parties. On completion of the transaction, TMML will become a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company.
Company will assess the impact and its evaluation once the subject rules are notified and will give appropriate impact in its financial
statements in the period in which, the Code becomes effective and the related rules to determine the financial impact are published.
Resilience and Rebound | 355

--- Page 325 ---
Consolidated Notes Forming Part of Consolidated Financial Statements (h) E xceptional amount of `114.00 crores and `(73.03) crores during the year ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, is related to write off/
provision (reversal) of certain property, plant and equipment, capital work-in-progress and intangibles under development.
(i) S ubsequent to March 31, 2021, Jaguar Land Rover agreed a revolving credit facility of `13,200.29 crores ( £1,310.00 million) which
will become available when the existing facility expires in July 2022. The new facility will be available in full until March 2024.
Membership No. 103334 Place- Mumbai Place- Mumbai
UDIN: 21103334AAAAAX9949
Place- Pune H K SETHNA [FCS: 3507] Company Secretary Place- Mumbai Date: May 18, 2021 Date: May 18, 2021 356 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 326 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Summarised statement of Assets and Liabilities (CONSOLIDATED) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED
(1) Property, plant and equipment and Other intangible assets 152,377.16 155,677.03 (2) Right of use assets 6,490.66 6,275.34 (3) Goodwill 803.72 777.06 (4) Non-current Investments 5,569.09 5,446.94 (5) Non-current Finance receivables 16,846.82 16,833.77 (6) Deferred tax assets (net) 5,523.65 6,609.95 (7) Other non-current assets 8,627.06 10,913.92 (8) Current assets 146,887.64 119,587.25
TOTAL ASSETS 343,125.80 322,121.26
WHAT THE COMPANY OWED
(1) Net worth Equity share capital 765.81 719.54 Other equity 54,480.91 62,358.99 (2) Non-controlling interests 1,573.49 813.56 (3) Non-current borrowings 93,112.77 83,315.62 (4) Non-current provisions 13,606.76 14,736.69 (5) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 1,555.89 1,941.87 (6) Other non-current liabilities 20,280.99 17,780.94 (7) Current liabilities 157,749.18 140,454.05
TOTAL LIABILITIES 343,125.80 322,121.26
Resilience and Rebound | 357

--- Page 327 ---
Consolidated Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss (CONSOLIDATED) (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
1 INCOME
Revenue 246,972.17 258,594.36 Other Operating Revenues 2,822.58 2,473.61 Total revenue from operations 249,794.75 261,067.97 Other income 2,643.19 2,973.15 Total 252,437.94 264,041.12
2 EXPENDITURE
Cost of materials consumed 141,357.27 152,671.47 Purchase of products for sale 12,250.09 12,228.35 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale 4,684.16 2,231.19 Employee benefits expense 27,648.48 30,438.60 Finance costs 8,097.17 7,243.33 Foreign exchange (gain)/loss (net) (1,732.15) 1,738.74 Depreciation and amortisation expense 23,546.71 21,425.43 Product development/Engineering expenses 5,226.63 4,188.49 Other expenses 40,921.97 57,087.46 Amount transferred to capital and other accounts (12,849.13) (17,503.40) Total Expenses 249,151.20 271,749.66 Profit/(loss) before exceptional items and tax 3,286.74 (7,08.54) Total Exceptional items 13,761.02 2,871.44 3 PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (10,474.28) (10,579.98) 4 Tax expense/(credit) (net) 2,541.86 395.25 5 PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3-4) (13,016.14) (10,975.23) 6 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates (net) (378.96) (1,000.00) 7 PROFIT/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (13,395.10) (11,975.23) 8 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) 2,919.34 11,504.47 9 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (10,475.76) (470.76) 358 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 328 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
FINANCIAL STATISTICS - CONSOLIDATED
CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Earnings Per Share Dividend Per Profit/ Profit/ Reserves Dividend (Basic)* (`) Share*# (`) Net Worth Year Gross Accumulated (Loss) (Loss) PAT to Capital and Borrowings Net Block Turnover Depreciation Taxes including ‘A’ ‘A’ Per Block Depreciation Before After Sales Ordinary Ordinary Surplus tax Ordinary Ordinary Share* (`) Taxes Taxes Share Share Share Share 2001-02 31,982 183,617 282,031 634,984 252,475 382,509 932,220 39,222 (18,015) (6,740) (10,719) 45 (1.1)% (3.95) - - - 66 2002-03 31,983 190,018 178,965 648,959 284,038 364,921 1,144,801 40,190 54,350 22,640 29,712 14,497 2.6% 9.29 - 4.00 - 66 2003-04 35,683 329,884 169,842 728,468 323,749 404,719 1,634,104 42,556 144,487 53,077 91,529 32,099 5.6% 27.88 - 8.00 - 104 2004-05 36,179 403,537 271,420 834,162 375,933 458,229 2,284,217 53,101 184,809 49,062 138,534 52,346 6.1% 38.50 - 12.50! - 121 2005-06 38,287 574,860 337,914 1,027,949 484,356 543,593 2,750,725 62,331 234,898 64,000 172,809 58,439 6.3% 45.86 - 13.00 - 160 2006-07 38,541 733,626 730,190 1,294,083 542,665 751,418 3,707,579 68,809 308,800 88,321 216,999 68,822 5.9% 56.43 - 15.00 - 200 2007-08 38,554 831,198 1,158,487 1,892,393 606,049 1,286,344 4,060,827 78,207 308,629 85,154 216,770 67,674 5.3% 56.24 - 15.00 - 225 2008-09 51,405 542,659 3,497,385 6,900,238 3,326,905 3,573,333 7,489,227 250,677 (212,925) 33,575 (250,525) 36,458 (3.3)% (56.88) (56.88) 6.00 6.50 114 2009-10 57,060 763,588 3,519,236 7,291,985 3,441,352 3,850,633 9,736,054 388,713 352,264 100,575 257,106 100,185 2.6% 48.64 49.14 15.00 15.50 144 2010-11 63,771 1,853,376 3,281,055 8,291,975 3,969,870 4,322,105 12,684,370 465,551 1,043,717 121,638 927,362 148,130 7.3% 155.25 155.75 20.00 20.50 302 2011-12 63,475 3,206,375 4,714,896 10,572,497 4,951,247 5,621,250 17,133,935 562,538 1,353,387 (4,004) 1,351,650 148,862 7.9% 42.58** 42.68** 4.00** 4.10** 103 2012-13 63,807 3,699,923 5,371,571 12,158,556 5,172,265 6,986,291 19,451,406 760,128 1,364,733 377,666 989,261 75,614 5.1% 31.02 31.12 2.00 2.10 118 2013-14 64,378 6,660,345 6,064,228 16,619,078 6,881,538 9,737,540 23,745,502 1,107,816 1,886,897 476,479 1,399,102 76,577 5.9% 43.51 43.61 2.00 2.10 209 2014-15 64,378 5,561,814 7,361,039 18,684,665 7,442,406 11,242,259 26,760,664 1,338,863 2,170,256 764,291 1,398,629 (3,319) 5.2% 43.44 43.54 0.00 0.00 175 2015-16 67,918 8,010,349 7,046,849 21,639,756 8,754,689 12,885,067 28,107,844 1,701,418 1,398,087 287,260 1,102,375 11,052 3.9% 32.61 32.71 0.20 0.30 238 2016-17 67,922 5,738,267 7,860,398 19,653,773 6,756,813 12,896,960 27,524,666 1,790,499 931,479 325,123 745,436 - 2.7% 21.94 22.04 - - 171 2017-18 67,922 9,474,869 8,895,047 25,312,610 9,179,519 16,133,091 29,629,823 2,155,359 1,115,503 434,193 898,891 - 3.0% 26.46 26.56 - - 281 2018-19 67,922 5,950,034 10,617,534 26,365,294 12,128,250 14,237,044 30,490,371 2,359,063 (3,137,115) (243,745) (2,882,623) - (9.5)% (84.89) (84.89) - - 177 2019-20 71,954 6,235,899 11,881,052 30,752,494 14,557,257 16,195,237 26,404,112 2,142,543 (1,057,998) 39,525 (1,207,085) - (4.6)% (34.88) (34.88) - - 182 2020-21 76,581 5,448,091 13,590,451 33,385,256 17,498,474 15,886,782 25,243,794 2,354,671 (1,047,428) 254,186 (1,345,139) - (5.3)% (36.99) (36.99) - - 152
Notes :
@ On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares.
* Equivalent to a face value of `2/- per share.
# Includes Interim Dividend where applicable.
! Includes a special dividend of ` 2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year.
++ On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^ On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^^ On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
Resilience and Rebound | 359

--- Page 329 ---
Consolidated Summarised statement of Assets and Liabilities (STANDALONE) (` in crores) As at As at March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
WHAT THE COMPANY OWNED
(1) Property, plant and equipment, Right of use assets and Other intangible assets 29,330.47 29,603.69 (2) Goodwill 99.09 99.09 (3) Non-current Investments 16,114.91 15,730.86 (4) Deferred tax assets (net) 715.31 727.97 (5) Other non-current assets 2,945.29 2,859.50 (6) Current assets 15,854.59 13,568.76
TOTAL ASSETS 65,059.66 62,589.87
WHAT THE COMPANY OWED
(1) Net worth Equity share capital 765.81 719.54 Other equity 18,290.16 17,668.11 (2) Non-current borrowings 16,326.77 14,776.51 (3) Non-current lease liabilities 593.74 522.24 (4) Non-current provisions 1,371.94 1,769.74 (5) Deferred tax liabilities (net) 266.50 198.59 (6) Other non-current liabilities 1,193.19 1,124.32 (7) Current liabilities 26,251.55 25,810.82
TOTAL LIABILITIES 65,059.66 62,589.87
360 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 330 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Summarised Statement of Profit and Loss (Standalone) (` in crores) Year ended Year ended March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020
1 INCOME
Revenue from operations 47,031.47 43,928.17 Other income 842.96 1,383.05 Total 47,874.43 45,311.22
2 EXPENDITURE
Cost of materials consumed 30,010.61 26,171.85 Purchase of products for sale 5,490.67 5,679.98 Changes in inventories of finished goods, work-in-progress and products for sale (69.02) 722.68 Employee benefits expense 4,212.99 4,384.31 Finance costs 2,358.54 1,973.00 Foreign exchange loss (net) 1.67 239.00 Depreciation and amortisation expense 3,681.61 3,375.29 Product development/Engineering expenses 907.64 830.24 Other expenses 5,801.90 7,720.75 Amount transferred to capital and other accounts (817.53) (1,169.46) Total Expenses 51,579.08 49,927.64 Profit before exceptional items and tax (3,704.65) (4,616.42) Total Exceptional items (1,392.08) 2,510.92 3 PROFIT BEFORE TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (2,312.57) (7,127.34)
4 TAX EXPENSE/(CREDIT) (NET) 82.87 162.29
5 PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS (3-4) (2,395.44) (7,289.63) 6 TOTAL OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) 442.99 (378.72) 7 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS) FOR THE YEAR (1,952.45) (7,668.35) Resilience and Rebound | 361

--- Page 331 ---
Consolidated
FINANCIAL STATISTICS
CAPITAL ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) REVENUE ACCOUNTS (` in lakhs) RATIOS Profit/ Profit/ Earnings Per Share Dividend Per Net Year Capital Re S s u e r r p a v l n u e d s s Borrowings G B r lo o c s k s Depreciation Net Block Turnover Depreciation B ( T L e a o f x o s e r s e s ) Taxes ( T L A a o f x s t e e s s r ) i D nc iv lu id d e t i n n a d g x P S A a T l e to s Ord S in h a a r r y e (B O as rd i S c in ) h * a a ( ' r r A ` y e ) ' Ord S in h a a r r y e Sh O ar r e d S * in h # a a ( ' r r A ` y e ) ' Wo S rt h h a P r ( e e ` * r ) 1945-46 100 1 - 31 2 29 12 2 1 - 1 - 8.3% 0.07 - - - 10 1949-50 200 11 94 233 44 189 167 15 11 5 6 - 3.6% 0.03 - - - 10 1953-54 500 27 412 731 270 461 321 97 3 - 3 - 0.9% 0.11 - - - 11 1954-55 627 27 481 792 303 489 445 35 - - - - 0.0% - - - - 11 1955-56 658 120 812 1,010 407 603 1,198 105 125 32 93 59 7.8% 1.32 - 0.60 - 12 1956-57 700 149 1,382 1,352 474 878 2,145 70 116 27 89 44 4.1% 1.64 - 0.80 - 13 1957-58 700 117 1,551 1,675 668 1,007 2,694 129 99 6 93 52 3.5% 1.72 - 0.90 - 12 1958-59 1,000 206 1,245 2,050 780 1,270 2,645 113 155 13 142 56 5.4% 1.68 - 0.90 - 12 1959-60 1,000 282 1,014 2,201 940 1,261 2,825 161 222 93 129 108 4.6% 1.50 - 1.25 - 13 1960-61 1,000 367 1,263 2,593 1,118 1,475 3,735 180 313 122 191 126 5.1% 2.26 - 1.45 - 14 1961-62 1,000 432 1,471 2,954 1,336 1,618 4,164 220 378 188 190 124 4.6% 2.28 - 1.45 - 15 1962-63 1,000 450 1,758 3,281 1,550 1,731 4,364 223 327 185 142 124 3.3% 1.68 - 1.45 - 15 1963-64 1,198 630 2,470 3,920 1,802 2,118 5,151 260 404 200 204 144 4.0% 1.97 - 1.45 - 16 1964-65 1,297 787 3,275 4,789 2,144 2,645 6,613 345 479 208 271 157 4.1% 2.39 - 1.45 - 17 1965-66 1,640 995 3,541 5,432 2,540 2,892 7,938 398 477 189 288 191 3.6% 2.20 - 1.45 - 18 1966-67 1,845 1,027 4,299 6,841 3,039 3,802 9,065 505 620 192 428 235 4.7% 2.80 - 1.45+ - 17 1967-68 1,845 1,121 5,350 7,697 3,608 4,089 9,499 572 395 66 329 235 3.5% 2.10 - 1.45 - 18 1968-69 1,845 1,295 5,856 8,584 4,236 4,348 10,590 630 582 173 409 235 3.9% 2.66 - 1.45 - 19 1969-70 1,845 1,333 6,543 9,242 4,886 4,356 9,935 662 274 - 274 221 2.8% 1.72 - 1.35 - 19 1970-71 1,845 1,516 6,048 10,060 5,620 4,440 13,624 749 673 270 403 251 3.0% 2.49 - 1.45 - 20 1971-72 1,949 2,020 6,019 10,931 6,487 4,444 15,849 758 885 379 506 273 3.2% 3.04 - 1.50 - 23 1972-73 1,949 2,194 5,324 12,227 7,491 4,736 15,653 820 832 360 472 266 3.0% 2.87 - 1.50 - 24 1973-74 1,949 2,394 6,434 13,497 8,471 5,026 16,290 902 1,007 450 557 180 3.4% 3.43 - 0.93 - 26 1974-75 1,949 2,827 9,196 15,838 9,593 6,245 22,510 1,134 677 136 541 266 2.4% 3.32 - 1.50 - 28 1975-76 2,013 3,691 9,399 18,642 10,625 8,017 27,003 1,054 855 91 764 276 2.8% 4.60 - 1.50 - 33 1976-77 2,328 3,833 11,816 20,709 11,685 9,024 28,250 1,145 1,056 - 1,056 323 3.7% 5.38 - 1.50+ - 30 1977-78 2,118 4,721 11,986 22,430 12,723 9,707 28,105 1,101 1,044 - 1,044 313 3.7% 5.37 - 1.50 - 35 1978-79 3,151 5,106 11,033 24,900 13,895 11,005 37,486 1,200 1,514 - 1,514 467 4.0% 5.36 - 1.60+ - 27 1979-80 3,151 6,263 17,739 28,405 15,099 13,306 44,827 1,300 1,762 - 1,762 605 3.9% 5.96 - 2.00 - 31 1980-81 3,151 8,095 15,773 33,055 16,496 16,559 60,965 1,616 2,437 - 2,437 605 4.0% 8.27 - 2.00 - 38 1981-82 4,320 10,275 25,476 38,819 18,244 20,575 79,244 1,993 4,188 - 4,188 839 5.3% 10.18 - 2.00+ - 35 1982-83 4,226 12,458 23,361 43,191 20,219 22,972 86,522 2,187 3,481 460 3,021 827 3.5% 7.34 - 2.00 - 40 1983-84 5,421 14,103 25,473 46,838 23,078 23,760 85,624 2,923 2,163 235 1,928 923 2.3% 3.61 - 2.00 - 37 1984-85 5,442 15,188 30,226 52,819 26,826 25,993 93,353 3,895 2,703 390 2,313 1,241 2.5% 4.32 - 2.30 - 39 1985-86 5,452 16,551 44,651 61,943 29,030 32,913 102,597 3,399 1,832 215 1,617 1,243 1.6% 3.00 - 2.30 - 41 1986-87 5,452 15,886 53,476 68,352 30,914 37,438 119,689 2,157 293 - 293 552 0.2% 0.51 - 1.00 - 40 1987-88 6,431 17,491 44,406 75,712 34,620 41,092 140,255 3,822 3,205 510 2,695 1,356 1.9% 4.25 - 2.30 - 38 1988-89 10,501 30,740 32,396 83,455 38,460 44,995 167,642 4,315 8,513 1,510 7,003 2,444 4.2% 6.74 - 2.50 - 40 1989-90 10,444 37,870 48,883 91,488 43,070 48,418 196,910 4,891 14,829 4,575 10,254 3,126 5.2% 9.87 - 3.00 - 47 1990-91 10,387 47,921 48,323 100,894 48,219 52,675 259,599 5,426 23,455 9,250 14,205 4,154 5.5% 13.69 - 4.00 - 56 1991-92 11,765 61,863 105,168 123,100 54,609 68,491 317,965 6,475 20,884 7,800 13,084 4,389 4.1% 12.45 - 4.00 - 67 1992-93 12,510 64,207 144,145 153,612 61,710 91,902 309,156 7,456 3,030 26 3,004 3,642 1.0% 2.47 - 3.00 - 63 1993-94 12,867 70,745 141,320 177,824 70,285 107,539 374,786 9,410 10,195 20 10,175 5,020 2.7% 7.91 - 4.00 - 65 1994-95 13,694 128,338 115,569 217,084 81,595 135,489 568,312 11,967 45,141 13,246 31,895 8,068 5.6% 23.29 - 6.00 - 104 1995-96 24,182 217,400 128,097 294,239 96,980 197,259 790,967 16,444 76,072 23,070 53,002 14,300 6.7% 21.92 - 6.00 - 100 1996-97 25,588 339,169 253,717 385,116 117,009 268,107 1,012,843 20,924 100,046 23,810 76,236 22,067 7.5% 30.40 - 8.00 - 143 1997-98 25,588 349,930 330,874 487,073 141,899 345,174 736,279 25,924 32,880 3,414 29,466 15,484 4.0% 11.51 - 5.50 - 147 1998-99 25,590 350,505 344,523 569,865 165,334 404,531 659,395 28,132 10,716 970 9,746 8,520 1.5% 3.81 - 3.00 - 147 1999-00 25,590 349,822 300,426 581,233 182,818 398,415 896,114 34,261 7,520 400 7,120 7,803 0.8% 2.78 - 2.50 - 147 2000-01 25,590 299,788 299,888 591,427 209,067 382,360 816,422 34,737 (50,034) - (50,034) - - (18.45) - - - 127 2001-02 31,982 214,524 230,772 591,006 243,172 347,834 891,806 35,468 (10,921) (5,548) (5,373) - - (1.98) - - - 77 2002-03 31,983 227,733 145,831 608,114 271,307 336,807 1,085,874 36,213 51,037 21,026 30,011 14,430 2.8% 9.38 - 4.00 - 81 2003-04 35,683 323,677 125,977 627,149 302,369 324,780 1,555,242 38,260 129,234 48,200 81,034 31,825 5.2% 24.68 - 8.00 - 102 2004-05 36,179 374,960 249,542 715,079 345,428 369,651 2,064,866 45,016 165,190 41,495 123,695 51,715 6.0% 34.38 - 12.50! - 114 2005-06 38,287 515,420 293,684 892,274 440,151 452,123 2,429,052 52,094 205,338 52,450 152,888 56,778 6.3% 40.57 - 13.00 - 145 2006-07 38,541 648,434 400,914 1,128,912 489,454 639,458 3,206,467 58,629 257,318 65,972 191,346 67,639 6.0% 49.76 - 15.00 - 178 2007-08 38,554 745,396 628,052 1,589,579 544,352 1,045,227 3,357,711 65,231 257,647 54,755 202,892 65,968 6.0% 52.64 - 15.00 - 203 2008-09 51,405 1,171,610 1,316,556 2,085,206 625,990 1,459,216 2,949,418 87,454 101,376 1,250 100,126 34,570 3.4% 22.70 23.20 6.00 6.50 238 2009-10 57,060 1,439,487 1,659,454 2,364,896 721,292 1,643,604 4,021,755 103,387 282,954 58,946 224,008 99,194 5.6% 42.37 42.87 15.00 15.50 262 2010-11 63,771 1,937,559 1,591,543 2,568,235 846,625 1,721,610 5,160,692 136,077 219,652 38,470 181,182 146,703 3.5% 30.28 30.78 20.00 20.50 315 2011-12 63,475 1,899,126 1,588,057 2,902,206 996,587 1,905,619 5,979,502 160,674 134,103 9,880 124,223 146,372 2.1% 3.90** 4.00** 4.00** 4.10** 62 2011-13 63,807 1,849,677 1,679,895 3,181,998 1,161,144 2,020,854 5,140,793 181,762 17,493 (12,688) 30,181 72,423 0.6% 0.93 1.03 2.00 2.10 60 2013-14 64,378 1,853,287 1,505,280 3,514,652 1,355,088 2,159,564 4,159,103 207,030 (102,580) (136,032) 33,452 74,196 0.8% 1.03 1.13 2.00 2.10 60 2014-15 64,378 1,421,881 2,113,441 3,785,500 1,603,098 2,182,402 4,141,264 260,322 (397,472) 76,423 (473,895) - -11.4% (14.72) (14.72) - - 46 2015-16 67,918 2,168,890 1,588,725 4,077,235 1,852,749 2,224,486 4,877,959 245,375 15,039 (8,384) 23,423 7,300 0.5% 0.68 0.78 0.20 0.30 66 2016-17 67,922 2,012,993 1,957,398 4,591,464 1,853,922 2,737,542 5,007,925 296,939 (242,077) 5,922 (247,999) - -5.0% (7.30) (7.30) - - 61 2017-18 67,922 1,949,176 1,846,384 4,826,322 2,156,196 2,670,126 6,118,229 310,189 (94,692) 8,793 (103,485) - -1.7% (3.05) (3.05) - - 59 2018-19 67,922 2,148,330 1,863,963 5,158,440 2,311,007 2,847,433 7,175,742 309,864 239,893 37,833 202,060 - 2.8% 5.94 6.04 - - 65 2019-20 71,954 1,766,811 2,544,477 5,614,576 2,654,207 2,960,369 4,531,122 337,529 (712,734) 16,229 (728,963) - -16.1% (21.06) (21.06) - - 51 2020-21 76,581 1,829,016 2,174,872 5,814,264 2,881,217 2,933,047 4,787,443 368,161 (231,257) 8,287 (239,544) - -5.0% (6.59) (6.59) - - 50
Notes :
@ On increased capital base due to conversion of Bonds / Convertible Debentures / Warrants / FCCN into shares.
$ On increased capital base due to issue of Bonus Shares. Net Worth excludes ordinary dividends.
* Equivalent to a face value of `2/- per share.
# Includes Interim Dividend where applicable.
+ Including on Bonus Shares issued during the year.
! Includes a special dividend of ` 2.50 per share for the Diamond Jubilee Year.
++ On increased capital base due to Rights issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^ On increased capital base due to GDS issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
^^ On increased capital base due to QIP issue and conversion of FCCN into shares.
362 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 332 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) STATEMENT PURSUANT TO FIRST PROVISO TO SUB-SECTION (3) OF SECTION 129 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2013, READ WITH RULE 5 OF COMPANIES (ACCOUNTS) RULES, 2014 IN THE PRESCRIBED FORM AOC-1
RELATING TO SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
PART - A
Share S N r o . Subsidiary Country R c e u p rr o e r n ti c n y g Exc R h a a te nge cap a i d t t o a v c w w l a a ( n h p a in c e i r t c d e r a l e s s l . Re S s u e r r p a v l n u e d s s As T s o e t t a s l Liabi T li o ti t e a s l Turnover P B (L r e o o f T o f s i a r t s e x / ) Ex ( p C e r n e T s d a e it x / ) P (L r a o o f f t s t i a e t s x / r ) p P f e ( y o L r r e r o o i o a t f s h i r d t s e * / / ) P d r t i o a h v n p e id d o re e s t n o e a n d d x (e o s x I f n u c in v e b v e p s e s t id t s in i m t a i m n c r e i a t e n e h s n t s e e s t ) sharehold % in o g f applicable) 1 TML Business Services Limited [name changed India INR 1.00 244.18 (258.30) 86.10 100.21 99.00 (13.98) (5.26) (8.72) (8.72) 15.34 - 100.00 from Concorde Motors (India) Limited w.e.f March 31, 2020] 2 Tata Motors Finance Ltd India INR 1.00 1,571.28 2,431.44 36,817.49 32,814.77 3,733.38 219.55 (30.57) 250.12 250.12 - 869.80 100.00 3 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd South KRW 0.06 57.57 1,783.10 3,734.52 1,893.85 3,433.73 (89.46) 53.60 (143.06) (143.06) - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f March 30, 2004) Korea 4 Tata Technologies Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f India INR 1.00 41.81 825.54 1,936.52 1,069.11 1,050.84 146.45 42.08 104.37 104.37 - 497.08 74.42 September 10, 1997) 5 Tata Motors Insurance Broking & Advisory India INR 1.00 5.00 57.13 132.94 70.81 215.90 30.54 7.88 22.66 22.66 - 57.78 100.00 Services Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f October 21, 2004) 6 Tata Motors European Technical Centre Plc UK GBP 100.77 474.57 (446.69) 168.77 140.89 185.75 (12.71) 1.59 (14.30) (14.30) - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f September 1, 2005) 7 TML Distribution Company Ltd (subsidiary India INR 1.00 225.00 143.52 404.29 35.77 32.54 8.04 0.55 7.49 7.49 - 119.83 100.00 w.e.f March 28, 2008) 8 Tata Motors (SA) (Proprietary) Ltd (subsidiary South ZAR 4.95 12.98 5.51 271.61 253.12 136.99 2.24 0.62 1.62 1.62 - - 60.00 w.e.f December 5, 2007) Africa 9 TMF Holdings Ltd (Name changed from Tata India INR 1.00 3,128.28 2,122.96 7,999.14 2,747.90 57.77 (92.64) 17.42 (110.06) (110.06) - 843.71 100.00 Motors Finance Limited w.e.f. June 30, 2017) (subsidiary w.e.f June 1, 2006) 10 Tata Motors Financial Solutions Ltd (subsidiary India INR 1.00 1,700.50 (130.20) 8,222.64 6,652.34 735.91 202.38 (13.86) 216.24 216.24 - 370.97 100.00 w.e.f January 19, 2015) 11 Tata Marcopolo Motors Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f India INR 1.00 170.00 (111.45) 383.29 324.74 264.64 (91.34) (0.04) (91.30) (91.30) - - 51.00 September 20, 2006) 12 Tata Motors (Thailand) Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f Thailand THB 2.34 985.45 (1,610.88) 77.84 703.28 23.36 10.18 - 10.18 10.18 - - 97.21 February 28, 2008) 13 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore (subsidiary Singapore GBP 100.77 12,691.10 (4,586.34) 19,084.00 10,979.25 - (826.82) 0.02 (826.83) (826.83) - 201.53 100.00 w.e.f February 4, 2008) 14 Brabo Robotics and Automation Limited India INR 1.00 9.90 (15.83) 5.91 11.85 8.38 (33.64) (0.10) (33.54) (33.54) - - 100.00 15 JT Special Vehicles Pvt. Limited (Ceased to be India INR 1.00 5.00 (3.09) 3.37 1.45 27.03 18.97 (1.18) 20.15 20.15 - - 100.00 a JV and became a Wholly-owned Subsidiary 16 TML Business Analytics Services Limited India INR 1.00 0.15 (9.42) 7.14 16.42 - (9.42) - (9.42) (9.42) 100.00 (Incorporated with effect from April 4, 2020) 17 Tata Hispano Motors Carrocera S.A (subsidiary Spain EUR 85.78 2.88 (867.36) 8.20 872.67 - (17.73) - (17.73) (17.73) - - 100.00 w.e.f October 16, 2009) 18 Tata Hispano Motors Carroceries Maghreb Morocco MAD 8.07 146.30 (201.02) 40.84 95.55 0.11 (6.14) - (6.14) (6.14) - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 23, 2014) 19 Trilix S.r.l (subsidiary w.e.f October 4, 2010) Italy EUR 85.78 0.61 (30.44) 16.03 45.86 78.87 15.14 11.59 3.55 3.55 - - 100.00 20 Tata Precision Industries Pte Ltd (subsidiary Singapore SGD 54.36 41.56 (27.87) 14.01 0.31 - 10.22 - 10.22 10.22 - - 78.39 w.e.f February 15, 2011) 21 PT Tata Motors Indonesia (subsidiary w.e.f Indonesia IDR 0.01 375.40 (81.24) 295.26 1.09 - (0.86) (0.02) (0.84) (0.84) - - 100.00 December 29, 2011) 22 INCAT International Plc. (subsidiary w.e.f UK GBP 100.77 2.45 45.04 47.58 0.09 0.14 0.49 0.09 0.40 0.40 - - 74.42 October 3, 2005) 23 Tata Technologies Inc. (Including Midwest USA USD 73.11 875.19 (399.18) 625.82 149.81 771.11 77.83 20.63 57.20 57.20 - - 74.48 Managed Services Inc.which got merged into Tata Technologies Inc. w.e.f. Feb 28, 2018) (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) 24 Tata Technologies de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico MXN 3.58 0.63 1.95 4.23 1.65 2.73 (1.00) - (1.00) (1.00) - - 74.48 (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005) 25 Cambric Limited, Bahamas (subsidiary w.e.f Bahamas USD 73.11 19.74 0.72 20.46 - 0.00 (0.02) - (0.02) (0.02) - - 74.48 May 1, 2013) Resilience and Rebound | 363

--- Page 333 ---
Consolidated Share S N r o . Subsidiary Country R c e u p rr o e r n ti c n y g Exc R h a a te nge cap a i d t t o a v c w w l a a ( n h p a in c e i r t c d e r a l e s s l . Re S s u e r r p a v l n u e d s s As T s o e t t a s l Liabi T li o ti t e a s l Turnover P B (L r e o o f T o f s i a r t s e x / ) Ex ( p C e r n e T s d a e it x / ) P (L r a o o f f t s t i a e t s x / r ) p P f e ( y o L r r e r o o i o a t f s h i r d t s e * / / ) P d r t i o a h v n p e id d o re e s t n o e a n d d x (e o s x I f n u c in v e b v e p s e s t id t s in i m t a i m n c r e i a t e n e h s n t s e e s t ) sharehold % in o g f applicable) 26 Cambric GmbH (subsidiary w.e.f May 1, 2013) Germany EUR 85.78 - - - - - 0.08 - 0.08 0.08 - - 74.48 27 Tata Technolgies SRL, Romania (erstwhile Romania RON 17.23 5.36 54.53 67.41 7.52 64.91 5.31 0.76 4.55 4.55 - - 74.48 Cambric Consulting SRL was renamed w.e.f February 4, 2015) (subsidiary w.e.f May 1, 2013) 28 Tata Manufacturing Technologies Consulting China CNY 11.16 3.43 35.89 59.57 20.24 46.70 (12.43) 0.00 (12.43) (12.43) - - 74.42 (Shanghai) Limited .(subsidiary w.e.f March 10, 2014) 29 Tata Technologies Europe Limited (subsidiary UK GBP 100.77 0.11 893.38 1,167.38 273.89 668.63 96.04 18.41 77.63 77.63 - - 74.42 w.e.f October 3, 2005) 30 Tata Technologies Nordics AB (Name changed Sweden SEK 8.38 0.18 6.68 70.16 63.30 86.87 0.42 (0.13) 0.55 0.55 - - 74.42 from Escenda Engineering AB with effect from November 2,2020) 31 INCAT GmbH (subsidiary w.e.f October 3, 2005)Germany EUR 85.78 1.41 18.86 20.33 0.07 0.34 0.40 1.35 (0.95) (0.95) - - 74.42 32 Tata Technologies (Thailand) Limited Thailand THB 2.34 8.25 (9.06) 7.09 7.89 9.64 (5.88) - (5.88) (5.88) - - 74.42 (subsidiary w.e.f October 10, 2005) 33 TATA Technologies Pte Ltd. (subsidiary w.e.f Singapore USD 73.11 394.81 427.57 850.92 28.54 97.79 13.55 0.20 13.36 13.36 - - 74.42 December 7, 2005) 34 Jaguar Land Rover Automotive plc (subsidiary UK GBP 100.77 15,121.28 6,257.14 77,910.61 56,532.19 - 3.01 - 3.01 3.01 - - 100.00 w.e.f June 2, 2008) 35 Jaguar Land Rover Holdings Limited(formally UK GBP 100.77 50.38 47,904.59 57,626.46 9,671.49 2.02 2,775.81 181.16 2,594.65 2,594.65 - - 100.00 known as Land Rover) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 36 Jaguar Land Rover Limited (previously Jaguar UK GBP 100.77 35,878.00 12,075.60 313,385.81 265,432.22 168,110.84 (16,723.89) 136.83 (16,860.72) (16,860.72) - - 100.00 Cars Limited) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 37 Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC. USA USD 73.11 292.45 3,898.59 15,472.84 11,281.80 46,570.56 1,114.63 (25.70) 1,140.33 1,140.33 - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 38 Jaguar Land Rover Deutschland GmbH Germany EUR 85.78 114.25 505.41 4,027.77 3,408.11 8,103.35 41.10 54.70 (13.60) (13.60) - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.fJune 2, 2008) 39 Jaguar Land Rover Belux N.V. (subsidiary w.e.f Belgium EUR 85.78 10.72 80.23 1,084.14 993.18 2,646.85 21.56 6.97 14.59 14.59 - - 100.00 June 2, 2008) 40 Jaguar Land Rover Austria GmbH (subsidiary Austria EUR 85.78 1.24 90.94 602.60 510.41 1,466.45 15.78 3.91 11.87 11.87 - - 100.00 w.e.f June 2, 2008) 41 Jaguar Land Rover Italia SpA (subsidiary w.e.f Italy EUR 85.78 353.97 371.45 3,482.03 2,756.62 6,104.90 58.55 23.77 34.78 34.78 - - 100.00 June 2, 2008) 42 Jaguar Land Rover Australia Pty Limited Australia AUD 55.71 3.90 459.21 2,630.64 2,167.53 3,039.03 72.10 19.76 52.34 52.34 - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 43 Jaguar Land Rover Espana SL Spain EUR 85.78 357.20 115.03 1,248.37 776.15 2,005.71 28.80 7.02 21.78 21.78 - - 100.00 44 Jaguar Land Rover Nederland BV (subsidiary Holland EUR 85.78 0.39 47.40 462.75 414.96 1,099.73 5.31 3.42 1.89 1.89 - - 100.00 w.e.f June 2, 2008) 45 Jaguar Land Rover Portugal-Veiculos e Pecas, Portugal EUR 85.78 11.41 54.97 246.90 180.53 419.12 12.18 2.59 9.59 9.59 - - 100.00 Lda. (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 46 Jaguar Land Rover (China) Investment Co Ltd China CNY 11.16 74.76 18,015.61 34,433.91 16,343.54 38,536.42 4,235.61 1,061.86 3,173.75 3,173.75 - - 100.00 47 Shanghai Jaguar Land Rover Automotive China LRE CNY 11.16 17.85 (23.18) 21.34 26.66 6.91 0.40 1.03 (0.63) (0.63) - - 100.00 Service Co. Ltd (subsidiary w.e.f March 10, 2014) 48 Jaguar Land Rover Japan Limited (subsidiary Japan JPY 0.66 31.72 310.01 1,210.32 868.59 2,321.28 40.50 20.13 20.37 20.37 - - 100.00 w.e.f October 1, 2008) 49 Jaguar Land Rover Korea Co. Ltd.(subsidiary Korea KRW 0.06 0.32 75.83 1,016.18 940.03 2,417.24 69.25 25.39 43.85 43.85 - - 100.00 w.e.f June 2, 2008) 50 Jaguar Land Rover Canada, ULC (subsidiary Canada CAD 58.03 - 642.06 2,447.32 1,805.25 4,513.34 59.82 10.51 49.31 49.31 - - 100.00 w.e.f June 2, 2008) 51 Jaguar Land Rover France SAS (subsidiary France EUR 85.78 37.44 57.35 1,511.66 1,416.86 5,071.56 68.51 22.71 45.81 45.81 - - 100.00 w.e.f February 1, 2009) 52 Jaguar e Land Rover Brasil Indústria e Brazil BRL 12.89 795.05 (462.85) 1,452.77 1,120.57 1,616.75 25.31 21.81 3.50 3.50 - - 100.00 Comércio de Veículos LTDA (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 364 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 334 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Share S N r o . Subsidiary Country R c e u p rr o e r n ti c n y g Exc R h a a te nge cap a i d t t o a v c w w l a a ( n h p a in c e i r t c d e r a l e s s l . Re S s u e r r p a v l n u e d s s As T s o e t t a s l Liabi T li o ti t e a s l Turnover P B (L r e o o f T o f s i a r t s e x / ) Ex ( p C e r n e T s d a e it x / ) P (L r a o o f f t s t i a e t s x / r ) p P f e ( y o L r r e r o o i o a t f s h i r d t s e * / / ) P d r t i o a h v n p e id d o re e s t n o e a n d d x (e o s x I f n u c in v e b v e p s e s t id t s in i m t a i m n c r e i a t e n e h s n t s e e s t ) sharehold % in o g f applicable) 53 Limited Liability Company Jaguar Land Russia RUB 0.97 4.68 174.28 1,248.59 1,069.63 4,238.02 230.61 53.77 176.84 176.84 - - 100.00 Rover (Russia) (incorporated on 25-5-2008) (subsidiary w.e.f May 15, 2009) 54 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) Holdings UK GBP 100.77 0.00 31,228.64 32,118.87 890.22 - 5,545.67 98.03 5,447.64 5,447.64 - - 100.00 Limited (subsidiary w.e.f February 2, 2009) 55 Jaguar Land Rover (South Africa) (Pty) Limited South ZAR 4.95 0.00 73.89 979.48 905.59 1,810.29 281.56 78.98 202.58 202.58 - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) Africa 56 Jaguar Land Rover India Limited (subsidiary India INR 1.00 280.25 (88.89) 800.57 609.21 1,096.59 30.13 14.66 15.47 15.47 - - 100.00 w.e.f October 25, 2012) 57 Daimler Transport Vehicles Limited (subsidiary UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 58 S S Cars Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 2008) (dormant) 59 The Lanchester Motor Company Limited UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 60 The Daimler Motor Company Limited UK GBP 100.77 15.11 - 15.11 - - - - - - - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 61 Jaguar Land Rover Pension Trustees Limited UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) 62 JLR Nominee Company Limited UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 63 Jaguar Cars Limited (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 2008) (dormant) 64 Land Rover Exports Limited UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 65 Land Rover Ireland Limited - (no longer a Ireland EUR 85.78 0.00 4.92 19.34 14.43 - - - - - - - 100.00 trading NSC) (subsidiary w.e.f June 2, 2008) 66 Jaguar Cars (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd (subsidiary South ZAR 4.95 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 w.e.f June 2, 2008) (dormant) Africa 67 Jaguar Land Rover Slovakia s.r.o. (JLRHL Slovakia EUR 85.78 5,361.23 440.08 9,624.66 3,823.36 2,347.33 106.04 - 106.04 106.04 - - 100.00 0.01% and JLRL 99.99%) 68 Jaguar Land Rover Singapore Pte. Ltd Singapore SGD 54.36 4.08 37.61 175.11 133.43 200.74 16.05 3.42 12.64 12.64 - - 100.00 (incorporated w.e.f November 25,2015) (subsidiary w.e.f November 25, 2015) 69 Jaguar Racing Limited (Incorporated w.e.f. UK GBP 100.77 0.00 27.87 81.58 53.70 - 6.50 - 6.50 6.50 - - 100.00 February 2, 2016) (subsidiary w.e.f February 2, 2016) 70 InMotion Ventures Limited (Incorporated UK GBP 100.77 0.00 (256.47) 224.38 480.85 - (3.72) - (3.72) (3.72) - - 100.00 w.e.f. March 18, 2016) (subsidiary w.e.f March 18, 2016) 71 In-Car Ventures Limited ((Formerly Lenny UK GBP 100.77 - (91.76) 0.32 92.08 0.30 (75.33) - (75.33) (75.33) - - 100.00 Insurance Limited name change on February 2, 2021) (100% Shareholding transferred from InMotion Ventures Limited to JLRHL on February 18, 2021) 72 InMotion Ventures 2 Limited UK GBP 100.77 - (57.50) 25.97 83.47 8.64 (13.84) - (13.84) (13.84) - - 100.00 73 InMotion Ventures 3 Limited UK GBP 100.77 - (20.95) 285.35 306.30 32.78 (12.47) - (12.47) (12.47) - - 100.00 74 Jaguar Land Rover Colombia SAS (subsidiary Colombia COP 0.02 43.54 (46.00) 72.95 75.42 101.36 27.22 17.56 9.66 9.66 - - 100.00 w.e.f August 22, 2016) 75 Jaguar Landrover Mexico S.A.P I de C.V Mexico MXN 3.58 13.76 40.16 179.04 125.13 435.79 5.16 0.33 4.83 4.83 - - 100.00 76 Jaguar Landrover Services Mexico S.A C.V Mexico MXN 3.58 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 77 Jaguar Land Rover Taiwan Company Pte. Ltd Taiwan TWD 2.57 9.88 31.66 312.32 270.78 1,287.43 40.92 8.29 32.63 32.63 - - 100.00 78 Land Rover Ireland (Services) Limited Ireland EUR 85.78 0.00 79.50 203.31 123.80 184.38 76.94 4.85 72.09 72.09 - - 100.00 79 Jaguar Land Rover Classic USA LLC ( USA USD 73.11 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 Incorporated w.e.f June 1, 2018) (dormant) 80 Jaguar Land Rover Classic Deutschland GmbH Germany EUR 85.78 21.44 (17.87) 13.73 10.16 17.38 (5.68) - (5.68) (5.68) - - 100.00 (Incorporated w.e.f. August 10,2018) 81 Jaguar Land Rover Hungary KFT (Incorporated Hungary HUF 0.24 0.07 12.42 90.84 78.35 108.14 8.31 0.03 8.28 8.28 - - 100.00 w.e.f July 30, 2018) Resilience and Rebound | 365

--- Page 335 ---
Consolidated Share S N r o . Subsidiary Country R c e u p rr o e r n ti c n y g Exc R h a a te nge cap a i d t t o a v c w w l a a ( n h p a in c e i r t c d e r a l e s s l . Re S s u e r r p a v l n u e d s s As T s o e t t a s l Liabi T li o ti t e a s l Turnover P B (L r e o o f T o f s i a r t s e x / ) Ex ( p C e r n e T s d a e it x / ) P (L r a o o f f t s t i a e t s x / r ) p P f e ( y o L r r e r o o i o a t f s h i r d t s e * / / ) P d r t i o a h v n p e id d o re e s t n o e a n d d x (e o s x I f n u c in v e b v e p s e s t id t s in i m t a i m n c r e i a t e n e h s n t s e e s t ) sharehold % in o g f applicable) 82 Jaguar Land Rover (Ningbo) Trading Co., Ltd. China CNY 11.16 1.12 487.52 1,481.33 992.70 5,062.45 591.66 112.79 478.87 478.87 - - 100.00 83 Jaguar Land Rover Ventures Limited UK GBP 100.77 - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 84 Bowler Motors Limited (Name changed from UK GBP 100.77 30.23 (29.46) 16.97 16.20 0.54 (8.01) - (8.01) (8.01) - - 100.00 Jaguar Land Rover Auto Ventures Limited on 28 January 2020) 85 Spark44 (JV) Ltd (Shareholding changed from UK GBP 100.77 20.27 275.49 548.53 252.77 17.60 17.31 1.11 16.19 16.19 - - 50.50 50% to 50.50% w.e.f. August 31, 2017) 86 Spark44 Limited (London & Birmingham) UK GBP 100.77 0.00 101.67 176.84 75.17 15.14 16.89 2.23 14.56 14.56 - - 50.50 87 Spark44 LLC (LA & NYC) USA USD 73.11 - 30.26 38.16 7.90 0.05 1.93 (3.35) 5.28 5.28 - - 50.50 88 Spark44 Canada Inc (Toronto) Canada CAD 58.03 - 4.87 7.83 2.96 - 0.62 0.12 0.50 0.50 - - 50.50 89 Spark44 GmbH (Frankfurt) Germany EUR 85.78 0.18 6.52 22.06 15.35 1.03 (7.97) (0.36) (7.61) (7.61) - - 50.50 90 Spark44 Communicacions SL (Madrid) Spain EUR 85.78 0.02 4.44 7.89 3.50 0.10 (0.44) 0.23 (0.67) (0.67) - - 50.50 91 Spark44 SRL (Rome) Italy EUR 85.78 0.07 (0.88) 6.18 6.00 - 0.16 0.11 0.05 0.05 - - 50.50 92 Spark44 Pty Ltd (Sydney) Australia AUD 55.71 0.00 3.84 4.96 1.11 - 1.22 0.37 0.85 0.85 - - 50.50 93 Spark44 Middle East DMCC (Dubai) UAE AED 19.92 0.02 2.27 3.25 0.98 - 0.40 - 0.40 0.40 - - 50.50 94 Spark44 Limited (Seoul) Korea KRW 0.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 - 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 - - 50.50 95 Spark44 Pte Ltd (Singapore) Singapore SGD 54.36 - 1.78 2.58 0.92 - 0.64 0.05 0.59 0.59 - - 50.50 96 Spark44 K.K. (Tokyo) Japan JPY 0.66 0.00 0.03 0.06 0.03 - 0.01 0.00 0.01 0.01 - - 50.50 97 Spark44 Demand Creation Partners Pte Ltd India INR 1.00 0.02 (0.02) 0.02 0.01 - (0.00) - (0.00) (0.00) - - 50.50 (Mumbai) 98 Spark44 South Africa (Pty) Limited South ZAR 4.95 0.00 0.09 0.20 0.12 - 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 - - 50.50 Africa 99 Spark44 Limited (Shanghai) China CNY 11.16 0.12 3.21 5.79 2.54 0.18 1.26 0.32 0.94 0.94 - - 50.50 100 Spark44 Taiwan Limited (Taiwan) (Incorporated Taiwan TWD 2.57 0.00 0.01 0.04 0.03 - (0.00) 0.00 (0.00) (0.00) - - 50.50 w.e.f. May 7,2018) 101 Spark44 Colombia S.A.S (Colombia) Colombia COP 0.02 0.00 (0.00) 0.00 0.00 - 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 - - 50.50 (Incorporated w.e.f. May 10,2018) 102 TMNL Motor Services Nigeria Ltd Nigeria NGN 0.18 0.33 (0.57) - 0.24 - (0.02) - (0.02) (0.02) - - 100.00 (incorporated w.e.f September 2, 2015) (subsidiary w.e.f September 2, 2015) 103 Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Sales and South KRW 0.06 4.00 12.23 82.17 65.94 67.49 (1.65) (0.30) (1.35) (1.35) - - 100.00 Distribution Co. Ltd. (subsidiary w.e.f April Korea 9, 2010) 104 PT Tata Motors Distribusi Indonesia (subsidiary Indonesia IDR 0.01 292.41 (286.64) 99.19 93.42 11.23 (23.64) (0.02) (23.34) (23.34) - - 100.00 w.e.f February 11, 2013) Details of Direct subsidiaries, on consolidated basis including their respective subsidiaries included above 1 Tata Technologies Limited (subsidiary w.e.f 41.81 2,083.88 3,556.19 1,430.51 2,388.33 315.28 76.09 239.19 239.19 - 497.07 74.42 September 10, 1997) 2 Tata Motors Finance Holdings Ltd (subsidiary 4,332.01 397.93 45,700.54 40,970.60 4,490.38 288.77 (3.18) 291.95 291.95 - 2,084.48 100.00 w.e.f June 1, 2006) 3 TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore** (subsidiary - - - - - - - - - - - 100.00 w.e.f February 4, 2008)
TML Holdings Pte Ltd, Singapore holds fully Jaguar Land Rover Automtive Plc,Tata Daewoo Commercial Vehicle Co. Ltd. and PT Tata Motors Indonesia, the consolidated accounts of which are given below :
December 29, 2011)
* Profit for the year is after share of minority interest and share of profit/(loss) in respect of investment in associate companies.
366 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 336 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) STATEMENT PURSUANT TO SECTION 129 (3) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013 RELATED TO ASSOCIATE
COMPANIES AND JOINT VENTURES
PART - B
Sr. Name of Associates/Joint Ventures Shares of Associate/Joint Ventures held Profit/(loss) for the year No by the company on the year end Latest audited No. Amount of Extent of Networth Considered Not Description Reason why the Balance Sheet Investment Holding % attributable in Considered of how associate/ joint venture Date in Associates/ to Shareholding Consolidation in there is is not consolidated Joint Venture as per latest (` in crore) Consolidation significant (` in crore) audited Balance (` in crore) influence Sheet (` in crore) Joint Operations 1 Fiat India Automobiles Private Limited March 31, 2021 122,257,983 1,567.04 50.00% 2,214.37 288.67 - Note (a) - 2 Tata Cummins Private Ltd March 31, 2021 90,000,000 90.00 50.00% 632.89 70.70 - Note (a) - Joint ventures 1 Chery Jaguar Land Rover Automotive Co Ltd March 31, 2021 - 2,126.45 50.00% 3,168.04 (417.41) - Note (a) - 2 Tata HAL Technologies Limited March 31, 2021 50,70,000 - 37.21% - - - There is no Provision for impairment significant was considered in full in influence. FY 16-17 3 Loginomic Tech Solutions Private Limited March 31, 2021 665,000 - 26.00% - - - Note (a) - (“TruckEasy”) Associates 1 Tata AutoComp Systems Ltd March 31,2021 52,333,170 77.47 26.00% 251.29 (30.30) - Note (b) - 2 Nita Company Ltd March 31,2021 16,000 1.27 40.00% 33.76 (4.95) - Note (b) - 3 Automobile Corporation of Goa Ltd March 31,2021 29,82,214 108.22 49.77% 136.87 (5.43) - Note (b) - 4 Jaguar Cars Finance Limited March 31, 2021 49,900 3.61 49.90% 2.73 - - Note (b) - 5 Synaptiv Limited March 31, 2021 15,600,000 1.57 37.50% 0.79 - - Note (b) - 6 CloudCar Inc March 31, 2021 133,255,012 - 26.30% - - - Note (b) - 7 DriveClubService Pte. Ltd. March 31, 2021 251 2.02 25.07% - - - Note (b) - 8 Jaguar Land Rover Switzerland AG (Jaguar Land March 31, 2021 300 10.08 30.00% 10.08 Note (b) - Rover Limited increased its shareholding from 10% to 30% w.e.f. November 25, 2020) 9 Tata Hitachi Construction Machinery Company March 31,2021 45,428,572 238.50 39.99% 590.05 25.04 - Note (b) - Private Ltd 10 Tata Precision Industries (India) Limited March 31,2021 200,000 - 39.19% 3.91 - - Note (b) - Unaudited financials considered for Consolidation
Note :
Resilience and Rebound | 367

--- Page 337 ---
Notice (PURSUANT TO SECTION 101 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2013) Dear Member, Company has received a notice in writing from a Member under Section 160(1) of the Act proposing his candidature for the office NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THE SEVENTY SIXTH ANNUAL of Director of the Company, be and is hereby appointed as a GENERAL MEETING OF TATA MOTORS LIMITED will be held on Friday, Director of the Company liable to retire by rotation.” July 30, 2021 at 3:00 p.m. IST through video conferencing / other audio visual means to transact the following business: 6. Appointment of Mr Kosaraju V Chowdary (DIN: 08485334) as a Director and as an Independent
ORDINARY BUSINESS
Director 1. T o receive, consider and adopt the Audited Financial Statements of the Company for the financial year ended March 31, 2021 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as
together with the Reports of the Board of Directors and the an Ordinary Resolution:
in force) and Article 132 of the Articles of Association of the
SPECIAL BUSINESS
Company, but who is eligible for appointment and in respect of 4. Appointment of Mr Mitsuhiko Yamashita (DIN: 08871753) whom the Company has received a notice in writing under Section as a Director 160(1) of the Act from a Member proposing his candidature for the office of Director, be and is hereby appointed as a Director of T o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as
the Company.
an Ordinary Resolution:
an Ordinary Resolution: To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as
a Special Resolution:
368 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 338 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) approval, the consent of the Members be and is hereby accorded (vii) R etirement benefits will be limited to contributions to the re-appointment and terms of remuneration of Mr Guenter to Provident Fund and Gratuity Fund only as per the
Butschek (DIN: 07427375) as the Chief Executive Officer and Rules of the Company.
of loss or inadequacy of profits, calculated under Section 198 of
elements of pension in India, listed in (vii) above.
the Act, in any financial year during his tenure, with liberty to the
Directors to alter and vary the terms and conditions of the said (ix) L eave entitlement as per rules of the Company.
appointment in such manner as may be agreed to between the Unavailed leave would lapse if not availed during the
Directors and Mr Butschek: said term.
I. NATURE OF DUTIES: (x) R elocation expenses from Mumbai to his hometown at
the end of his above tenure.
The MD shall, devote his whole time and attention to the business
of the Company and carry out such duties as may be entrusted to c) Incentive Remuneration in the form of:
as recommended by the Nomination and Remuneration
II. REMUNERATION:
Committee of Directors are:
b) Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances: and quantitative parameters as may be decided by
the Board from time to time.
D etails of Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances are as
follows: • Industry benchmarks of remuneration.
• Performance of the individual.
(ii) L ong Term Incentive: With the objective of achieving long
German citizen) to India.
Company Policy. the agreement is initiated by the MD prior to completion
of the term.
(v) T elecommunication facility as per rules of the
Company. III. FOREIGN EXCHANGE CONVERSION AND TAXES:
• Business Class travel, four times a year for self
for certain categories of benefits and perquisites.
and spouse to Austria.
IV. MINIMUM REMUNERATION:
• Personal Accident Insurance Premium.
perquisites and allowances, incentive remuneration and retirement
benefits as specified above.
Resilience and Rebound | 369

--- Page 339 ---
V. OTHER TERMS OF APPOINTMENT: Company for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be a
Director and Chief Executive Officer and MD of the Company.
hereafter in this regard in such manner as may be agreed to Intellectual Properties, non-solicitation post termination of
between the Board and the MD, subject to such approvals as agreement and maintenance of confidentiality.
may be required.
case of termination initiated by the Company before the end T o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as
of the Term for the reasons other than Tata Code of Conduct an Ordinary Resolution:
vi. U pon the termination by whatever means of employment of Director of the Company liable to retire by rotation.”
the MD:
claim for compensation for loss of office by virtue of T o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as
Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and shall resign as trustee of a Special Resolution:
any trust connected with the Company.
which are applicable to other employees of the Company time, the consent of the Members be and is hereby accorded to the
shall also be applicable to the MD, unless specifically appointment and terms of remuneration of Mr Girish Wagh (DIN:
Company for any reason whatsoever, he shall cease to be and conditions of the said appointment in such manner as may be
the MD and the Agreement shall forthwith terminate. If at any agreed to between the Directors and Mr Wagh:
370 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 340 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) I. NATURE OF DUTIES: • Company performance on certain defined qualitative and quantitative parameters as may be decided by the
The Executive Director shall, devote his whole time and attention Board from time to time.
to the business of the Company and carry out such duties as
• Industry benchmarks of remuneration.
may be entrusted to him by the Board from time to time and
separately communicated to him and exercise such powers as • Performance of the individual.
and directions of the Board in connection with and in the best Share Award Plan (‘PSP’) and such other Long Term
interests of the business of the Company and the business of Incentive Plan (‘LTIP’) as per rules of the Company.
one or more of its associated companies and / or subsidiaries,
including performing duties as assigned to the Executive Director III. MINIMUM REMUNERATION:
has no profits or its profits are inadequate, the Company will pay
II. REMUNERATION:
`15,00,000/- per month. exceeding 187.5% of basic salary) and Long Term incentive plan
and retirement benefits, as specified above.
T he annual increment which will be effective 1st April
IV. OTHER TERMS OF APPOINTMENT:
would be limited upto an amount not exceeding 20% of the to between the Board and the Executive Director, subject to
basic salary as may be decided by the Board in the above such approvals as may be required.
manner.
otherwise concerned, directly or through his spouse and/or
b) Benefits, Perquisites and Allowances:
children, in any selling agency of the Company.
Telecommunication facility; Club Membership; Leave Option plans, Performance Share plans (paid at the discretion
and encashment of unavailed leave. of the Board), in lieu of such notice.
terminated by the Company without notice or payment in
a) Leave Travel Concession/Allowance 8% of basic salary lieu of notice:
Agreement to render services; or
c) Performance Linked Bonus:
appropriate from time to time by the Board which will be • in the event the Board expresses its loss of confidence
payable annually after the Annual Accounts have been in the Executive Director.
Board (recommended by the NRC) are: his contract on such terms as the Board may consider
appropriate in the circumstances.
Resilience and Rebound | 371

--- Page 341 ---
f) U pon the termination by whatever means of employment of and/or Whole Time Directors) in case of no / inadequate profits, the Executive Director: as calculated under Section 198 of the Act, for the three Financial Years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23, in accordance with the • the Executive Director shall immediately cease to hold limits prescribed under Schedule V of the Act and the same be offices held by him in any holding company, subsidiaries paid and distributed amongst such Directors in such a manner as or associate companies without claim for compensation the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.” for loss of office by virtue of Section 167(1)(h) of the Act and shall resign as trustee of any trust connected with 11. Tata Motors Limited Share-based Long Term Incentive the Company. Scheme 2021 and grant of stock options and / or performance share units to the Eligible Employees under • the Executive Director shall not without the consent of the Scheme the Board at any time thereafter represent himself as connected with the Company or any of its subsidiaries T o consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as
or associate companies. a Special Resolution:
guidelines prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Board
Company.
issue and allot such number of Ordinary Shares not exceeding
an Ordinary Resolution:
372 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 342 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) `2/- (Rupees Two Only) per Ordinary Share in case of PSUs; and any rules, circulars, notifications, guidelines and regulations (b) at a price of `338/- (Rupees Three Hundred and Thirty Eight issued by the Reserve Bank of India (‘FEMA’), provisions of Only) per Ordinary Share in case of Options, and that the grant the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based of PSUs and/or Options, vesting and exercise thereof shall be in Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (‘SBEB Regulations’), one or more tranches and on such terms and conditions, as may the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Listing Obligations be determined by the Board in accordance with the provisions of and Disclosure Requirements) Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI the Scheme, the accounting policies, SBEB Regulations and in due Listing Regulations’), provisions of any regulations/guidelines compliance with the applicable laws and regulations in force. prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) and other applicable laws for the time being in force (including R ESOLVED FURTHER that the Ordinary Shares to be issued any amendment thereto or modification(s) or re-enactment(s) pursuant to the Scheme shall rank pari passu in all respects with thereof from time to time), relevant provisions of Memorandum
the existing Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Shares upon exercise of PSUs and/or ‘Options’ by the Eligible
including the exercise price.
“ RESOLVED that based on the recommendation of the Nomination To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as
and Remuneration of Committee (‘NRC’) and pursuant to the an Ordinary Resolution:
Resilience and Rebound | 373

--- Page 343 ---
thereof for the time being in force) and the Companies (Audit and ratifies the remuneration of `5,00,000/- (Rupees Five Lakhs Auditors) Rules, 2014, as amended from time to time, the Board of Only) plus applicable taxes, travel and out-of-pocket expenses Directors be and is hereby authorised to appoint Branch Auditor(s) incurred in connection with the audit, as approved by the Board of any Branch Office of the Company, whether existing or which of Directors, payable to M/s Mani & Co., Cost Accountants (Firm may be opened/acquired hereafter, outside India, in consultation Registration No. 000004) who are appointed as Cost Auditors to with the Company’s Auditors, any persons, qualified to act as conduct the audit of the cost records maintained by the Company Branch Auditors within the provisions of Section 143(8) of the Act for the financial year ending March 31, 2022.” and to fix their remuneration.” By Order of the Board of Directors 14. Ratification of Cost Auditor’s Remuneration To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution as HOSHANG K SETHNA an Ordinary Resolution: Company Secretary Mumbai, June 23, 2021 FCS No: 3507
“RESOLVED that pursuant to the provisions of Section 148(3) and Registered Office:
1. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Corporate Affairs
TO APPOINT A PROXY TO ATTEND AND VOTE ON HIS/HER
(‘MCA’) has vide its General Circular No. 20/2020 dated May 5, 2020
BEHALF AND THE PROXY NEED NOT BE A MEMBER OF THE
in relation to clarification on holding of annual general meeting COMPANY. SINCE THIS AGM IS BEING HELD PURSUANT TO THE (‘AGM’) through video conferencing (‘VC’) or other audio visual
MCA CIRCULARS THROUGH VC/OAVM, THE REQUIREMENT OF
means (‘OAVM’) read with General Circulars No. 14/2020 dated
PHYSICAL ATTENDANCE OF MEMBERS HAS BEEN DISPENSED
April 8, 2020, No. 17/2020 dated April 13, 2020, No. 33/2020 dated WITH. ACCORDINGLY, IN TERMS OF THE MCA CIRCULARS AND September 28, 2020, No. 39/2020 dated December 31, 2020 and THE SEBI CIRCULARS, THE FACILITY FOR APPOINTMENT OF No. 10/2021 dated June 23, 2021 in relation to ‘Clarification on PROXIES BY THE MEMBERS WILL NOT BE AVAILABLE FOR THIS passing of ordinary and special resolutions by companies under the
AGM AND HENCE THE PROXY FORM, ATTENDANCE SLIP AND
Companies Act, 2013 and the rules made thereunder on account of
ROUTE MAP OF AGM ARE NOT ANNEXED TO THIS NOTICE.
dated January 13, 2021 (collectively referred to as ‘MCA Circulars’) 5. Institutional investors and corporate Members are encouraged
and the Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) vide its to attend and vote at the 76th AGM through VC/ OAVM facility.
No. SEBI/HO/CFD/CMD2/CIR/P/2021/11 dated January 15, 2021 certified copy of the Board Resolution to the Scrutinizer by email at
(collectively referred to as ‘SEBI Circulars’) permitted the holding tml.scrutinizer@gmail.com with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.
of the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’/‘the Meeting’) through VC/ co.in.
Regulations, 2015 (‘SEBI Listing Regulations’) and MCA Circulars,
(‘ADR’) of the Company shall not be entitled to attend the said AGM.
to give or withhold such consent, to receive such notice or to
24 Homi Mody Street, Mumbai 400 001.
20/2020 dated May 5, 2020, issued by the MCA, the matters as to the manner in which such voting instructions may be given, is
of Special Business as appearing at Item Nos. 4 to 14 of the being sent to the ADR holders by the Depositary.
7. I n case of joint holders, the Member whose name appears as the first
Board and hence, form part of this Notice.
holder in the order of names as per the Register of Members of the
3. T he Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Act Company will be entitled to vote at the AGM.
and the relevant details of the Directors seeking appointment/
the purpose of reckoning the quorum under Section 103 of the Act.
374 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 344 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) as per the MCA Circulars. This will not include large shareholders a) C hange in their residential status on return to India for
(shareholders holding 2% or more shareholding), Promoter/ permanent settlement.
Committee, Auditors etc. who are allowed to attend the AGM without
earlier.
restriction on account of first come first served basis.
Company’s records which will help the Company and its RTA provide
Report 2020-21 are available on the Company’s website viz.
efficient and better service to the Members.
National Stock Exchange of India Limited at www.bseindia.com and is required to be provided to the Company’s RTA in physical mode,
www.nseindia.com respectively. The AGM Notice is also available after restoring normalcy or in electronic mode at csg-unit@tpclindia.
11. E lectronic copies of all the documents referred to in the
Company’s website under Investor resources.
Section 170 of the Act; the Register of Contracts and Arrangements
17. S EBI HAS MANDATED SUBMISSION OF PAN BY EVERY
in which Directors are interested maintained under Section 189 of PARTICIPANT IN THE SECURITIES MARKET. MEMBERS HOLDING the Act; the certificate from the Statutory Auditors of the Company SHARES IN ELECTRONIC FORM ARE, THEREFORE, REQUESTED stating that the Company has implemented the Tata Motors Limited
TO SUBMIT THEIR PAN DETAILS TO THEIR DEPOSITORY
Employees Stock Option Scheme 2018 (‘Scheme’) in accordance
PARTICIPANTS. MEMBERS HOLDING SHARES IN PHYSICAL
with the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Share Based FORM ARE REQUESTED TO SUBMIT THEIR PAN DETAILS TO THE Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014; and the special resolution
COMPANY’S RTA.
management, Members holding shares in physical form are
are requested to register the same by submitting Form No. SH-13.
form. Members can contact the Company’s RTA for assistance in this
available on the Company’s website under Investor resources.
regard.
an application to the IEPF Authority in Form No. IEPF-5 available on
changes.
www.iepf.gov.in.
long. Periodic statement of holdings should be obtained from the
physical form.
for Members who wish to receive the Annual Report along with
Company’s RTA immediately of:
the AGM Notice electronically and to cast the vote electronically.
Resilience and Rebound | 375

--- Page 345 ---
Eligible Members whose email addresses are not registered with e-voting during the AGM (as explained at ‘para G’ below).
the Company/ DPs are required to provide the same to RTA on or Instructions for Members for attending the AGM through
before 5:00 p.m. IST on Tuesday, July 20, 2021 pursuant to which, VC/OAVM are explained at ‘para H’ below.
and in case of voting rights on the ‘A’ Ordinary Shares, the
password for remote e-voting.
holder shall be entitled to one vote for every ten ‘A’ Ordinary
(i) P rocess for registration of email addresses with RTA is as Shares held.
under:
date’) shall be entitled to vote in respect of the shares held,
b) S elect the name of the Company from dropdown.
by availing the facility of remote e-voting prior to the AGM
c) E nter details in respective fields such as DP ID and Client or remote e-voting during the AGM.
present at the Meeting through VC/OAVM who have not
e-mail ID.
have cast their vote by remote e-voting prior to the AGM are
submit.
eligible to attend the Meeting but shall not be entitled to
After successful submission of the e-mail address, NSDL cast their vote again.
Dhabliwala (Membership No. FCS 8331) of M/s Parikh
unit@tpclindia.co.in or evoting@nsdl.co.in.
(ii) R egistration of email address permanently with RTA/DP: Scrutinizer to scrutinize the remote e-voting process, in a
Members are requested to register the email address with fair and transparent manner.
their concerned DPs, in respect of shares held in demat
F. I NSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING PRIOR TO THE
mode and with RTA, in respect of shares held in physical
AGM
mode, by writing to them.
for procuring user id and password for e-voting for the
sending a request at evoting@nsdl.co.in.
resolutions set out in this Notice:
allowed to vote through remote e-voting thereafter. Once
Card.
the vote on a resolution is cast by the Member, the Member
• In case shares are held in demat mode, please provide shall not be allowed to change it subsequently.
digit beneficiary ID), Name, client master or copy of
consists of ‘Two Steps’ which are mentioned below:
copy of PAN card, self-attested scanned copy of Aadhar Step 1: Access to NSDL e-voting system
Card.
electronic means (by using the electronic voting system mobile number and email Id in their demat accounts in
provided by NSDL) either by (i) remote e-voting prior to the order to access e-voting facility.
376 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 346 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Login method for Individual shareholders holding i. E xisting users who have opted for Easi / securities in demat mode is given below: Easiest, they can login through their user id and password. Option will be made available • For individual Members holding securities in demat to reach e-voting page without any further
mode with NSDL:
website of NSDL Viz. https://eservices.nsdl.com home/login or www.cdslindia.com and click on
either on a Personal Computer or on a mobile. On New System Myeasi.
enter your existing User ID and Password. After
i.e. NSDL. Click on NSDL to cast your vote.
PAN No. from a link in www.cdslindia.com home
virtual meeting and voting during the meeting.
IDeAS Portal’ or click at https://eservices.nsdl. respective ESP i.e. NSDL where the e-voting is in
com/SecureWeb/IdeasDirectReg.jsp progress.
company name or e-voting service provider
joining virtual meeting & voting during the meeting.
and voting during the meeting. Forget Password option available at abovementioned
website.
scanning the QR code mentioned below for in demat mode for any technical issues related to login
seamless voting experience. through Depository i.e. NSDL and CDSL.
Shareholders in login can contact CDSL helpdesk
holding securities by sending a request at helpdesk.
Resilience and Rebound | 377

--- Page 347 ---
II. L ogin Method for e-voting and joining virtual email ID. Trace the email sent to you from meeting for shareholders other than Individual NSDL from your mailbox. Open the email shareholders holding securities in demat mode and and open the attachment i.e. a .pdf file. Open shareholders holding securities in physical mode. the .pdf file. The password to open the .pdf file is your 8 digit client ID for NSDL account, i. V isit the e-voting website of NSDL. Open web last 8 digits of client ID for CDSL account or
browser by typing the URL: https://www.evoting.
folio number for shares held in physical form.
The .pdf file contains your ‘User ID’ and your
mobile.
‘initial password’.
mentioned below in process for those shareholders
‘Shareholders’ section.
whose email ids are not registered.
User ID, your Password and a Verification Code as
‘initial password’ or have forgotten your password:
shown on the screen.
account with NSDL or CDSL) option available
eservices.nsdl.com/ with your existing IDeAS login.
on www.evoting.nsdl.com.
proceed to step 2 i.e. Cast your vote electronically. are holding shares in physical mode) option
available on www. evoting.nsdl.com.
ID followed by 8 Digit Client ID (For
your name and your registered address.
account with CDSL: 16 Digit Beneficiary vi. A fter entering your password, tick on ‘I hereby
ID (For example if your Beneficiary ID is agree to all Terms and Conditions’.
12************** then your user ID is
vii. Click on ‘Login’ button.
12**************).
c) F or Members holding shares in Physical
e-voting will open.
Members holding ‘A’ Ordinary Shares, if folio
status.
virtual meeting, you need to click on ‘VC/OAVM’ link
Individual shareholders are given below:
placed under ‘Join General Meeting’.
a) I f you are already registered for e-voting,
a. EVEN for Ordinary Shares is 116056.
then you can use your existing password to
login and cast your vote. b. EVEN for ‘A’ Ordinary Shares is 116057.
b) I f you are using NSDL e-voting system for the iii. N ow you are ready for e-voting as the Voting page opens.
iv. C ast your vote by selecting appropriate options i.e. assent
password’ which was communicated to you.
you need to enter the ‘initial password’ and
‘Confirm’ when prompted.
password. v. U pon confirmation, the message ‘Vote cast successfully’
will be displayed.
c) How to retrieve your ‘initial password’?
If your email ID is registered in your demat
clicking on the print option on the confirmation page.
378 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 348 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) vii. O nce you confirm your vote on the resolution, you will not ii. Members are encouraged to join the Meeting through be allowed to modify your vote. laptops for better experience. Further Members will be required to allow camera and use internet with a good
G. INSTRUCTIONS FOR REMOTE E-VOTING DURING AGM
speed to avoid any disturbance during the Meeting. Please i. T he procedure for remote e-voting during the AGM is note that participants connecting from mobile devices or same as the instructions mentioned above for remote tablets or through laptop connecting via mobile hotspot e-voting since the Meeting is being held through VC/ may experience audio/video loss due to fluctuation in OAVM. their respective network. It is therefore recommended to use stable Wi-Fi or LAN Connection to mitigate any kind of ii. T he Chairman shall, at the AGM, at the end of discussion on
aforesaid glitches.
• Institutional/corporate Members (i.e. other than responded by the Company at the earliest post the
individuals, HUF, NRI, etc.) are required to send a conclusion of the AGM.
ID/folio number, PAN and mobile number at inv_rel@
with a copy marked to evoting@nsdl.co.in.
tatamotors.com between Friday, July 23, 2021 (9:00 a.m.
unsuccessful attempts to key in the correct password. right to restrict the number of speakers depending on the
In such an event, you will need to go through the availability of time for the AGM.
v. M embers who need assistance before or during the AGM
Reset Password?’ option available on www.evoting.
may contact NSDL on evoting@nsdl.co.in or 1800-222-
nsdl.com to reset the password.
990 or contact Mr Amit Vishal, Senior Manager – NSDL at
• In case of any queries/grievances pertaining to amitv@nsdl.co.in or call on +91 22 2499 4360.
remote e-voting (prior to and/or during the AGM),
23. DECLARATION OF RESULTS ON THE RESOLUTIONS:
conclusion of the AGM, submit a consolidated Scrutinizer’s report
H. I NSTRUCTIONS FOR MEMBERS FOR ATTENDING AGM
of the total votes cast in favour and against the resolution(s),
THROUGH VC / OAVM
invalid votes, if any, and whether the resolution(s) has/have been i. M embers will be provided with a facility to attend the carried or not, to the Chairman or a person authorized by him in
AGM through VC/OAVM through the NSDL e-voting writing.
• The result declared along with the Scrutinizer’s Report shall
mentioned above for access to NSDL e-voting system.
link placed under Join General Meeting menu. The link for
of India Ltd., where the securities of the Company are listed.
where the EVEN of Company will be displayed. Please • Subject to the receipt of requisite number of votes, the Resolutions
note that the Members who do not have the User ID and shall be deemed to be passed on the date of the Meeting i.e.
Password for e-voting or have forgotten the User ID and July 30, 2021.
e-voting instructions mentioned in the notice to avoid last
minute rush.
Resilience and Rebound | 379

--- Page 349 ---
EXPLANATORY STATEMENT Given his experience, the Board considers it desirable and in the interest of the Company to have Mr Bolloré on the Board of the Company and The Explanatory Statement pursuant to Section 102 of the Companies accordingly the Board recommends the appointment of Mr Bolloré as Act, 2013 (‘Act’), given hereunder sets out all material facts relating to a Non-Executive Director as proposed in the resolution set out at Item the special business mentioned at Item Nos. 4 to 14 of the accompanying
No. 5 for approval by the Members.
Notice dated June 23, 2021.
Managerial Personnel or their respective relatives are, in any way,
Based on the recommendation of the Nomination and Remuneration concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the said resolution.
Chairman, Tata Sons Private Limited-Company’s Promoter and by rotation, for a term of five years i.e. from October 27, 2020 up to
based on the recommendation of the NRC, the Board of Directors October 26, 2025 subject to approval of the Members.
132 of the Articles of Association of the Company, Mr Chowdary shall
2020, liable to retire by rotation.
up to the date of this Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) and is eligible to the office of Director. The profile and specific areas of expertise of Mr
be appointed as a Director. The Company has, in terms of Section 160(1) Chowdary are provided as Annexure to this Notice.
and Regulation 16(1)(b) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India
Mr Yamashita are provided as Annexure to this Notice.
restrained from acting as a Director by virtue of any Order passed by the by virtue of any Order passed by SEBI or any such authority and is
Securities and Exchange Board of India (‘SEBI’) or any such authority and eligible to be appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164 of the Act.
is eligible to be appointed as a Director in terms of Section 164 of the Act. He has also given his consent to act as a Director.
He has also given his consent to act as a Director.
of the Company to have Mr Yamashita on the Board of the Company and specified in the Act and the SEBI Listing Regulations for appointment as
accordingly the Board recommends the appointment of Mr Yamashita an Independent Director and he is independent of the management.
Given his experience, the Board considers it desirable and in the interest
Item No. 4 for approval by the Members.
Managerial Personnel or their respective relatives are, in any way, as an Independent Director as proposed in the resolution set out at Item
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the said resolution. No. 6 for approval by the Members.
Based on the recommendation of the NRC, the Board of Directors
11 given in the Notice on inspection of documents.
rotation, w.e.f October 27, 2020, subject to approval of the Members. Managerial Personnel or their respective relatives are, in any way,
concerned or interested, financially or otherwise, in the said resolution.
restrained from acting as a Director by virtue of any Order passed by the
2016, including the terms of his remuneration as summarized below:
in terms of Section 164 of the Act. He has also given his consent to act
as a Director.
380 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 350 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Remuneration: would be due and paid upon Mr Butschek fulfilling his responsibilities
for remainder of his term under the employment contract:
the date of payment); • LTIP for FY 2017-18: `5,66,14,074/- (€6,60,000) payable in August
2021.
b) B enefits, perquisites and allowances, including retirement benefits;
and • LTIP for FY 2018-19: `5,09,52,667/- (€5,94,000) is due and
c) I ncentive Remuneration in the form of Performance Bonus and Long payable in April 2022.
Term Incentive. • LTIP for FY 2019-20: `1,41,53,519/- (€1,65,000) is due and
Minimum Remuneration: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein payable in April 2023.
Company will pay to the MD, remuneration by way of basic salary, benefits, pertaining to the period February 15, 2021 to March 31, 2021 is
perquisites and allowances, incentive remuneration and retirement benefits subject to approval of the Members.
as specified above.
The LTIP amount for FY 2017-18, FY 2018-19 and FY 2019-20 has
Further, the Members at the 75th AGM held on August 25, 2020, also by been revised due to foreign currency due to exchange rate fluctuation.
(including for the period February 15, 2021 to March 31, 2021) to Mr
February 14, 2021).
To facilitate the introduction and smooth transition of Mr Butschek’s role India, approval of Central Government is also being sought for his re-
to the successor, the Board of Directors, based on the recommendation of appointment.
entrusted him with the overall responsibility of Tata Motors’ operations
significant/strategic initiatives upto the period March 31, 2022.
The following is the calculation of remuneration to Mr Butschek in view of international markets which, inter alia, included South Korea, Thailand,
absence of profits / losses for FY 2020-21 and for the period February 15, Spain, Indonesia and South Africa.
2021 to March 31, 2021:
a. Mr Butschek’s Remuneration 27.38 3.42 to propose Mr Wagh’s appointment as a Director and the Members’
b. Amounts not to be considered for 0.18 0.03 approval is sought for the said proposal given in the Resolution No. 8.
d. Performance bonus and LTIP 9.63 1.20 years, pursuant to Sections 196, 197, Schedule V and other applicable
recommended by the NRC and the provisions, if any, of the Act.
198 of the Act for the payment of Managerial Remuneration as per the
`12,288.86 crores as per Schedule V of the Act.
thereunder. Further, whilst the Company has improved its performance
Members on August 25, 2020.
on the recommendation of the NRC in the previous year which have is being sought for payment of minimum remuneration as defined in the
been accrued in the books of accounts in the respective years and proposed resolutions at Item Nos. 7 to 9 of the Notice .
Resilience and Rebound | 381

--- Page 351 ---
THE STATEMENT CONTAINING ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AS REQUIRED UNDER SCHEDULE V OF THE ACT I. General Information
1. Nature of Industry:
T he Company is mainly engaged in the business of manufacture, assembly and sale of automobile products consisting of all types of
commercial and passenger vehicles, including spare parts.
2. Date or expected date of commencement of commercial production:
T he Company was incorporated on September 1, 1945 and on receipt of Commencement of Business Certificate on November 20, 1945, the
Company had since commenced its business.
3. In case of new companies, expected date of commencement of activities as per project approved by financial institutions
appearing in the prospectus:
Not Applicable.
4. Financial Performance based on given indicators:
Note: Above amounts are extracted from financial statements of the Company on consolidated and standalone basis (without Joint Operations) for the respective
financial year.
It may be noticed from the above table that there is significant 5. Foreign Investment or collaborations, if any:
Further, there is reversal of impairment losses and onerous contract holders, are investors in the Company on account of past issuances
provisions as on March 31, 2021, on the back of the significant of securities and secondary market purchases.
mobility and the rich preference for our ‘New Forever’ range of cars and
SUVs led to the PV business recording its highest ever annual sales 1. Background details:
continues to show improvements. (trade unions), private and public authorities, fostering a
culture of teaming, agility and accountability.
382 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 352 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367)
2. Past remuneration: 4. Remuneration proposed:
No. 7 of the Notice. In monetary terms the remuneration for
FY FY FY
Particulars 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 period is given hereunder:
(2) There is no change in the ` denominated remuneration of # Certain Perquisites and Allowances are based on realistic
Mr Butschek, except for performance linked bonus and long assumptions.
for all future payments of remuneration is assumed at a constant
payment.
of 1€=`85.57 (rate as on the date of payment for March 2021).
Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock Options Scheme, FY 2020-21 but is pro-rated for a period of 3 months i.e. upto June
2018. 30,2021.
is entrusted with the overall responsibility of Tata Motors’ relevant details would be with respect to the country
operations in India and international markets (but excluding of his origin):
Motors with profound knowledge in complex restructuring/ level benchmarks with the help of survey conducted by Aon
turnaround programs and cultural transformation initiatives Hewitt, an independent global compensation consultant.
the strategic and operational restructuring and transformation requisite comparative data of the CEO/ MD remuneration in
required and Mr Butschek’s broad functional and general global automotive companies:
its subsidiaries does not additionally compensate him in any 2,570 2,989 5,110 8,765 10,063
manner for these additional activities.
( Data Source: Aon Hewitt Executive Compensation team).
As may be seen from the Company’s financials briefly stated
6. Results, Recognition and Awards:
under Mr Butschek’s leadership are summarised in point no. 2 portfolio. Nexon EV dominated the personal segment
under the heading ‘Other Information’ given below. with a market share of 69.8% in Q4 FY21.
Resilience and Rebound | 383

--- Page 353 ---
• Nexon, India’s safest car received 5-star GNCAP rating the Company’s employees and their families. After followed by similar rating for Altroz. Tiago and Tigor a complete washout in Q1 (first wave Covid), the became the safest cars in their respective segments Company could manage profitability and cash flows with 4-star GNCAP rating. We have been instrumental through a Business Continuity Plan, which holistically in setting new benchmarks in safety standards for the addressed the entire ecosystem for the three phases of industry. lockdown, restart and revival that made the second part of the fiscal year, in particular Q4 an exceptional period • Customer metrics (NPS, CSI) improved significantly – of structural recovery, delivering on the essence of the Passenger Vehicle Business achieved Rank 2 (highest
Turnaround achievements.
part penetration increased by 600 bps in FY 2020-21 vs
of the leadership team in this demanding period of time.
FY 2019-20, with higher contribution to revenue.
improved its Industry leading score further showing
development issues.
centricity, b) Tata InnoVista award for modular Intra
sales in 8 years and increased its market share to 8.2%.
and PV business witnessed strong improvement in
Jamshedpur Plant.
margins in FY 2020-21.
received by the customers and continued to create
new paradigms of functionality, productivity, comfort, 1. Background details:
performance and connectivity, thereby bringing forth
Aged 50, Mr Girish Wagh has done his MBA from S. P.
Jain Institute of Management & Research, BE from Pune
and/or enhanced returns on investment for customers.
Motors Executive Committee (ExCom) since 2017. During
quarter growth and improved realization.
• Leading the industry in supporting Govt’s Vision and the business units - Passenger Vehicles and Commercial
fueling e-mobility aspirations, both in PV as well as CV, Vehicles, as also various functions in the value chain.
projects such as the Tata ACE - Mini Truck and Nano, and
in-house engineering capabilities.
• The Company was amongst the top 10 companies in
regulatory changes in FY20 and COVID-pandemic in FY21.
In 2020, he was also awarded, the ‘CV Man of the Year’, by
Corporate Governance Scorecard in 2018, 2019, 2020.
unpredictable markets perpetuated by the pandemic Council, and the Chairman of the SIAM’s Commercial Vehicle
as well as the concerns around health & safety of CEO Council.
384 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 354 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) 2. Past remuneration: which includes TATA Samarth program – health & accident insurance and financial planning for drivers, Saarthi Aaram (` in Lakhs) Kendras- rest stops for on route drivers; ‘Desh ke Saarthi
Particulars FY FY FY to facilitate driver job search. Further, for local mechanics:
2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 a ‘Bandhu’ portal has been rolled out to connect them with
Basic Salary 76.70 76.70 64.74 customers.
performance through market share growth in MHCV and
actuarial valuation is not available.
the Tata Motors Limited Employees Stock Options Scheme, actions have been rolled out and continue to be a priority for
2018 and the same would vest on fulfillment of certain sustained winning in the SCV&PU segment.
TML CVBU dealers immensely. Through efforts under this
be approved by the Members at this AGM.
Dealer Satisfaction scores from below industry average in
The appointment of Mr Wagh is in the context of the following:
FY17 to Rank#2 in FY18 and Rank #1 in FY20, as per the
• Over the last couple of years, the Company’s Commercial last syndicated study done by JD power DSWAMI survey.
has cumulatively helped TATA Motors CVBU reduce its
regulatory environment and drop in profitability.
the years. category” in TCM (Total Cost Management) maturity by CII
(Confederation of Indian Industries).
in FY21. The all-new BSVI range of CV products has been
delivery time by 90%.
which a comprehensive roadmap has been formed and is
lac plants have already been planted under this initiative.
being deployed b) Financier partnerships c) Go to Market
Excellence for front end engagement and sales process, 4. Remuneration proposed:
Resilience and Rebound | 385

--- Page 355 ---
the 3 years period from the date of his appointment is given improved its market share in M&HCV segment to 58.1% hereunder: (+410 bps from FY 2017-18) and ILCV segment to 45.9% (+90 bps from FY 2017-18) (` in Lakhs) • After the setback in FY 2016-17 due to unexpected
FY FY FY FY
Particulars Supreme court ruling on BSIV transition, we were 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 2024-25 much better prepared on achieving successful BSVI 3 months transition. Through focused action plans, we achieved Basic Salary1 90.00 99.00 108.90 29.95
a successful BSVI transition despite several headwinds.
which will be provided as per the Company rules. actions, we reduced our EBIT breakeven point by 25%
3 Performance payment estimated on achievement of 100% target in FY 2020-21.
Manufacturer of the Year award for 3rd year in a row
amongst others.
4 PSP/ESOP estimated on achievement of target at 100% as outlined
Apollo CV awards 2021.
in the scheme.
5 Excludes provision for encashable leave and gratuity as a separate • The Commercial Vehicles business won CII Customer
actuarial valuation is not available. Obsession Award for 3rd year in a row in FY 2020-21.
and other parameters. These will be taken into consideration by
points improvement in three years.
the NRC from time to time.
industry, size of the Company, profile of the position and
personnel, if any:
with appropriate qualifications, currently do not hold
Deloitte, an independent global compensation consultant.
similar sized domestic companies, taking into consideration
under the heading ‘Past Remuneration’ above.
remuneration in the domestic automotive and other major capacity, there is no other pecuniary relationship with the
companies having positions of similar size and scale: Company or with the managerial personnel of the Company.
Total Cost to Company with Long Term Incentive III. Other Information
(` in Lakhs) 1. R easons of loss or inadequate profits:
10th 25th Median 75th 90th The performance highlights for FY 2020-21 were as
percentile percentile percentile percentile follows:
well accepted in the market. The business maintained Vehicle industry in India registered a 21.7% decline in
its market leadership position in Commercial Vehicles FY 2020-21.
386 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 356 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) • Our turnaround initiatives had started delivering • The Commercial Vehicles business has taken various results. This was witnessed by an industry leading initiatives, to maintain its leadership, improve EBITDA margin of 11% for CV business in FY 2018- 19 market share and financial performance. It has been and breakeven EBITDA for PV business in FY 2018-19. aggressively pursuing and implementing its strategies Our financial performance was impacted primarily by to improve volumes, reduce costs, improve cash flows, several external challenges in FY 2019-20. and launch new products with advanced technologies coupled with sale, service, marketing campaigns and • Despite challenging FY 2020-21, the Company
customer engagement programs.
and financial results in FY 2020-21 as compared to FY
robust turnaround in the PV business.
2019-20.
contract provisions as on March 31, 2021, on the back
positive changes have been:
Business Agility Plan to address the short-term challenges increasing efficiency, market development and
by keeping its costs low and ecosystem viable while exploration of new opportunity.
− The Company aims to build on to the lead of FY
customer segments.
− PV Subsidiarization has been announced as a
savings of `9,300 crores against targets of `6,000 crores.
Members’ attention is being drawn to the Management
this year.
The Company may however end FY 2021-22 with no/ new group company focused on defense solutions,
inadequate profits as calculated for payment of Managerial through a slump sale arrangement.
− Subsidiary clean ups are underway, unlocking cash
198 read with Schedule V of the Act.
from non-core investments.
2. Steps taken or proposed to be taken for improvement:
acceleration thereby enabling a smooth transition to
or enhanced returns on investment for customers.
customer, b) Advanced connectivity solution ‘Fleet
EBITDA and EBIT margins.
Resilience and Rebound | 387

--- Page 357 ---
Edge’ to enable the end customer to improve their asset − Next wave of transformation underway with Data
efficiencies, c) Unique products such as LPT 4925 with Analytics, Industry 4.0, Logistics 4.0, and Digitalization.
Ace Gold Petrol, INTRA V30 (Smart Pickup), Yodha 1.7 T; in digital and Reimagining Front-end program is also
and an entire range of trucks for vaccine transportation underway.
Guarantee, Service time assurance(TATA Zippy), India’s
master the transformation from physical to digital.
driving experience & payload capacity (7 ton GVW planning process, optimise work load capacity and
category) were received with great success in the improve new product development process.
market.
− Passenger Vehicles Business launched a fully and Culture building exercise to energize and engage
refreshed portfolio In Jan’20. The portfolio updated the workforce and build future leadership.
appreciated for Best-in-class Safety, Stylish Design and
debt.
for all the products in our portfolio. Passenger Vehicles T he Company expects to successfully navigate the headwinds
business had the highest sale of SUVs (86K units) for faced by auto-industry.
sales since launch of Nexon (63K) and Harrier (18.8K)
measurable terms:
from the market. VAVE and fixed cost management have led to improved
operational & financial performance.
− A focused organization-wide cross-functional initiative,
and strong positive free cash flows for its CV business.
team-working and a sense of urgency. flows by FY 23 & positive free cash flows there after for its
PV business.
continuity. competitive, cash accretive growth while deleveraging its balance
sheet.
on comparative industry remuneration and practices. The decisions
as the demand recovers through business agility plan.
We endeavour to deliver on the continuously rising
remuneration as approved by the Members.
better turnaround time, lower cost of ownership and The Company remains committed to pursue the long term interest of
refinements. all stakeholders, including the Company’s Members and employees.
industry proven management team through the long term. This
to alternate fuel options for the sustainable future.
involves ensuring that the Company’s leadership and talent base is
Electrification remains key focus area.
388 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 358 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) appropriately remunerated, notwithstanding cyclical phases. This However, taking into consideration the financial performance and the is particularly important when the Company has ongoing significant profitability of the Company, no commission was paid to the Non- turnaround and growth strategies under execution. Executive Directors for FY 2019-20. The Company has incurred a loss as computed under Section 198 of the Act and therefore no The Board recommends the resolutions set out at Item Nos. 7, 8 and 9 commission would be payable to the Non-Executive Directors for FY
of the Notice for approval by the Members.
2020-21.
company in accordance with the provisions contained in the amended
inspection of documents.
Schedule V to the Act.
and the SEBI Listing Regulations coupled with the size, complexity and
other secured creditor.
accordance with the provisions of Section 198 of the Act or such other Years 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23 in case of inadequacy of
percentage as may be specified from time to time. profits/ losses for in any of the said financial year(s).
F or details regarding point no. I pertaining to the General Information and point no. III pertaining to Other Information, as provided in Schedule
V to the Act, the Members may refer to the details provided above in the Explanatory Statement to Item Nos. 7 to 9 of the Notice.
G iven below is the information about the appointees as required under Schedule V of the Act, the effective capital of the Company for various
financial years as applicable to the Non-Executive Directors and the maximum amount of remuneration that may be payable to them:
Recognition and Rewards https://www.tatamotors.com/about-us/leadership/. Please also refer to the Report on
Corporate Governance, which forms part of this Annual Report.
Past Remuneration (in ` Lakhs)
FY 2019-20 12.8 8.2 8.6 NA NA
FY 2018-19 98.2 78.6 NA NA NA
FY 2017-18 7.2 3 NA NA NA
Effective Capital as applicable to them (based on date of 13,548.21 13,548.21 13,126.79 12,288.74 12,288.74 appointment) (in ` crores) *Maximum amount of remuneration for FY20-21 (in ` Lakhs) 156.98 156.98 152.77 77.53 61.32 Remuneration proposed (in ` Lakhs) 45 40 45 20 20 Comparative remuneration profile with respect to industry, size The remuneration has been considered by the NRC and the Board of Directors of the company, profile of the position and person (in case of of the Company and is in line with the remuneration being drawn by similar
expatriates the relevant details would be with respect to the positions in the automotive industry.
applicable, and reimbursement of out of pocket expenses received by them for
attending the meetings.
* The limit on remuneration is based on Effective Capital which shall be calculated as of the last date of the financial year preceding the financial year in which
the appointment of the Director is made as per Schedule V to the Act (Base amount of `24 Lakhs plus 0.1% of the Effective Capital in excess of `250 crores).
1. As a policy, Mr N Chandrasekaran, Chairman, has abstained from receiving remuneration from the Company and hence not stated.
2. Mr Thierry Bolloré is a Non-executive Director and is not paid any remuneration from the Company in view of his appointment as Chief Executive Officer and
Director of Jaguar Land Rover Automotive PLC.
Resilience and Rebound | 389

--- Page 359 ---
Regulation 17(6) of the SEBI Listing Regulations authorises the The Board believes that the above two initiatives to link the Board of Directors to recommend all fees and compensation, if employees performance in Tata Motors with other initiatives any, paid to Non-Executive Directors, including Independent taken in the Tata Motors group would assist in improving the
Directors and the same would require approval of members in financials of the Company, both standalone and consolidated.
general meeting.
The PSU and Options are being introduced with the following
This remuneration will be distributed amongst all or some of the main objectives:
given by the Board as prescribed under the Remuneration Policy ii. T o redefine the fixed and performance drive pay mix to drive
of the Company. Kindly refer to https://investors.tatamotors. a performance culture in the Company.
any other purpose whatsoever, as may be decided by the Board
respectively.
for payment of remuneration to the Non-Executive Directors as
price performance over the said grant price.
set out in the said resolution.
India (Share Based Employee Benefits) Regulations, 2014 (‘SBEB
or other secured creditor.
Regulations’).
None of the Directors, Key Managerial Personnel or their
The salient features of the Scheme are as under:
respective relatives, are concerned or interested in the
Resolution mentioned at Item No. 10 of the Notice, except the a. Brief description of the Scheme:
and motivate the Eligible Employees of the Company
FY 2020-21.
compensation and benefits match the long gestation period
time being in force.
of certain key initiatives and to drive ownership behaviour and
collaboration amongst employees, it is proposed to approve and b. Total number of PSUs and/or Options to be granted:
• The total number of PSUs to be granted under the
Scheme 2021 (‘TML SLTI Scheme 2021’ / ‘the Scheme’).
The Company had implemented Tata Motors Limited Employee
issued share capital of the Company as on date).
Stock Options Scheme 2018 for grant of options to eligible
employees in FY 2018-19.
390 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 360 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) • The total number of Options to be granted under the Employee; provided further that the number of PSUs and/or Scheme: Not exceeding 14,00,000 (Fourteen Lakh Options vested would be a minimum of 50% of the number of
Only) in aggregate, that would entitle the grantees the PSUs and/or Options granted.
and so on and so forth) subject to minimum vesting period
share capital of the Company as on date).
T he total aggregate limit of 75,00,000 (Seventy Five Lakh the right to subscribe to the Ordinary Shares during the
Only) PSUs and 14,00,000 (Fourteen Lakh Only) Options Exercise Period.
W here an Eligible Employee discontinues to be in the
decided by the Board/NRC.
permanent employment of the Company due to:
• Resignation or Termination of services: All the PSUs
participate in the Scheme:
the levels of LC, L1, L2 and L3 and its equivalent to the
conditions detailed in the Scheme.
Company, on the grant date for PSUs;
above level by way of new appointments or promotions,
retirement date.
on the grant date for Options.
as per the Scheme. Any vested PSUs and/or Options not
time to time.
• An employee of the Company or its subsidiary
or Options.
employee even after the transfer or deputation. The
• Independent Directors of the Company or its subsidiary vesting and exercise period would be as per the Scheme.
companies.
T he PSUs and/or Options shall vest in employees subject
employee.
Company achieving these performance matrices viz. Market granted to the employee as on the date of permanent
share, EBIT and Free Cash Flows as per the Company’s incapacitation, shall vest in him/her on that day.
the number of PSUs and/or Options vested will not exceed
(after adjusting the period of long leave).
Resilience and Rebound | 391

--- Page 361 ---
e. Maximum period within which the PSUs and/or in any one year would not exceed 25,00,000 and in Options shall be vested: aggregate the maximum number of PSUs would not exceed 75,00,000 (representing 0.198% of the total P SUs and/or Options granted under TML SLTI Scheme
issued share capital of the Company).
in any one year would not exceed 14,00,000 and in
f. Exercise Price or pricing formula:
• The Exercise Price for PSUs: Exercise Price shall be exceed 14,00,000 (representing 0.037% of the total
`2/- (Rupees Two Only) per PSU, i.e. at the face value of issued share capital of the Company).
the underlying Ordinary Share of the Company.
India Limited on June 22, 2021 (one day prior to the representing 0.009% of the issued share capital, for each
Board Meeting date for approving the Scheme). year of the Scheme.
exercising such PSUs and/or Options subject to applicable the decision of the Board shall be final in respect of such
laws, rules and regulations. adjustment.
g. Exercise Period and the process of Exercise: j. Maximum Quantum of benefits to be provided per
employee:
by a further period of two years, as it may deem fit. or Options held by him/her and the market price of the
Ordinary Shares as on the date of sale.
T he PSUs and/or Options will be exercisable by the
employees by a written application to the Company k. Route of Scheme implementation:
manner and on execution of such documents, as may be
directly by the Company.
prescribed by the NRC from time to time.
l. Source of Shares:
the specified Exercise Period. Lapsed PSUs and/or Options T he Scheme contemplates issue of new Ordinary Shares by
cannot be re-issued by the Company. the Company.
and/or Options, the NRC shall be entitled to specify such the Scheme by the Company to the Trust, its tenure,
procedures and/or mechanisms subject to applicable utilisation, repayment terms, etc.:
thereon as may be necessary and the same shall be binding
implementation of the Scheme.
on the Eligible Employees.
(subject to limits specified under the Regulations)
employees:
that can be made by the Trust for the purchase under
T he appraisal process for determining the eligibility of the the scheme:
employees to the PSUs and/or Options at the time of grant
This is not applicable under the present Scheme.
and to the number of Ordinary Shares at the time of vesting
will be decided by the NRC from time to time. The broad o. Accounting and Disclosure Policies:
Affairs under the Companies (Indian Accounting Standards)
evaluation, performance linked parameters, etc.
• In case of PSUs: The number of PSUs that may be
the disclosure requirements prescribed therein.
392 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21

--- Page 362 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) p. Method of Valuation: The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item
No. 13 of the Notice for approval by the Members.
issued to the employees. are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise,
in the said resolution.
its meeting held on May 18, 2021, approved the re-appointment
be disclosed in the Board’s Report.
way of a special resolution, for approval of the Scheme and issue
expenses.
Only) plus applicable taxes, out-of-pocket and other expenses for
Authorised Share Capital of the Company.
the said financial year.
The Board recommends the special resolution set out at Item Nos.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 148 of the Act read
11 and 12 of the Notice for approval by the Members.
referred to in the resolutions would be available for inspection Resolution is being sought from the Members as set out at Item
by the members. Please refer to Note 11 given in the Notice on No. 14 of the Notice.
inspection of documents.
financially or otherwise, in the resolution set out at Item Nos. 11 have conducted the audit of the cost records of the Company for
and 12 of the Notice, except to the extent of PSs and/or Options previous years under the provisions of the Act.
The Board recommends the Ordinary Resolution set out at Item
Ordinary Shares issued, as applicable.
No. 14 of the Notice for approval by the Members.
In line with its global aspirations, the Company has undertaken / are, in any way, concerned or interested, financially or otherwise,
would undertake projects/establishments in and outside India for in the said resolution.
duly qualified to act as an auditor of the accounts of the said Mumbai, June 23, 2021 FCS No: 3507
branch offices in accordance with the laws of that country. To Registered Office:
with the provisions of Section 143 of the Act, in terms of the
Resolution at Item No. 13 of the Notice.
Resilience and Rebound | 393

--- Page 363 ---
394 | 76th Integrated Annual Report 2020-21
ECITON OT ERUXENNA
gniteeM lareneG launnA gnimochtrof eht ni tnemtnioppa-er/tnemtnioppa gnikees srotceriD fo sliateD )stnemeriuqeR erusolcsiD dna snoitagilbO gnitsiL( IBES eht fo )3(63 noitalugeR ot tnausruP[ ]sgniteeM lareneG no 2-dradnatS lairaterceS dna 5102 ,snoitalugeR hgaW hsiriG kehcstuB retneuG yradwohC V ujarasoK érolloB yrreihT atihsamaY okihustiM narakesardnahC N sralucitraP 16391130 57372470 43358480 39253980 35717880 36812100 noitacifitnedI rotceriD )NID( rebmuN 0791 ,2 rebmeceD 0691 ,12 rebotcO 4591 ,01 rebotcO 3691 ,03 yaM 3591 ,71 lirpA 3691 ,2 enuJ egA / htriB fo etaD sraey 05 sraey 06 sraey 66 sraey 85 sraey 86 sraey 85 1202 ,1 yluJ 6102 ,51 yraurbeF 0202 ,72 rebotcO 0202 ,72 rebotcO 0202 ,61 rebmetpeS 7102 ,71 yraunaJ tnemtnioppa tsrif fo etaD draoB eht no etutitsnI niaJ .P .S morf ABM noitartsinimdA ssenisuB aloyoL morf scitamehtaM enihpuaD-siraP morf ABM ni eergeD s’retsaM a dna ecneicS deilppA ni eerged s’rolehcaB noitacifilauQ lanoitacudE ,hcraeseR & tnemeganaM fo a htiw scimonocE dna tsoP dna iannehC egelloC ni gnisilaiceps ,ytisrevinU gnireenignE lacituanoreA morf snoitacilppA retupmoC ni eerged s’retsaM .ytisrevinU enuP morf EB ytisrevinU eht morf amolpid scitamehtaM ni noitaudarG .ecnaniF ytisrevinU otoyK morf .aidnI ,yhcirT ,egelloC gnireenignE lanoigeR noitacudE evitarepooC fo .iannehC ,TII morf ta deiduts osla sah dna .ynamreG ,tragttutS etutitsnI sttesuhcassaM decnavdA( ygolonhceT fo .)hcraeseR tnediserP neeb sah hgaW rM feihC eht si kehcstuB rM detrats yradwohC rM eht si érolloB yrreihT rM erom sgnirb atihsamaY rM eht fo namriahC eht si narakesardnahC N rM gnidulcni( ecneirepxE laicremmoC fo daeH dna dna reciffO evitucexE a sa 6791 ni reerac sih revoR dnaL raugaJ fo OEC ecneirepxe fo sraey 04 naht dna ynapmoc gnidloh eht ,snoS ataT fo draoB cificeps ni esitrepxe ataT - tinU ssenisuB elciheV eht fo rotceriD gniganaM ni reciffo yranoitaborp .0202 rebmetpeS gnidael rof dekrow gnivah gnitarepo ataT 001 naht erom fo retomorp feirB / )saera lanoitcnuf rebmem a dna .dtL srotoM kehcstuB .rM .ynapmoC denioj retal dna knaB arhdnA 0991 ni reerac sih detratS evitomotuA esenapaJ fo seunever launna etagergga htiw seinapmoc emuseR eettimmoC evitucexE eht fo labolg fo sraey +82 sah ecivreS euneveR naidnI eht kcurT yvaeH s’nilehciM htiw nassiN ekil seinapmoc ,siht ot roirP .noillib 001$ SU naht erom eH .7102 ecnis )moCxE( lanoitanretni ni ecneirepxe .8791 ni sah érolloB rM ,yrotcaf eryt dna ynapmoC srotoM htiw reerac raey 03 a dah narakesardnahC rM ataT ta reerac sih detrats tnemeganam evitomotua evitucexe lareves dleh eH snoitisop roines suoirav dleh noitaroproC rotoM ihsibustiM .OEC sti emoceb ot sknar eht urht gnisir SCT reenignE etaudarG sa srotoM snoitcnuf elpitlum ssorca deriter dna snoitisop 03 naht erom deniag dna dna seiticapac suoirav ni ,ataT ta reerac lanoisseforp sih ot noitidda nI enuP ta 2991 ni )TEG( eeniarT ,noitcudorp sa hcus lartneC fo namriahC sa ecneirepxe labolg fo ’sraey yrosivda no devres sah a sa detnioppa osla saw narakesardnahC rM .tnalp gnirutcafunam UBVC ni dna noitasilairtsudni nO .sexaT tceriD fo draoB ,aiceruaF ekil seinapmoc htiw fo yrtsiniM eht ni slenap ,knaB lartneC s’aidnI fo draoB eht no rotceriD 92 fo reerac suoirtsulli sih nI sediseB .tnemerucorp saw eh ,noitaunnarepuS ynapmoc tnenopmoc otua na no dna sriaffA ngieroF sah dna 6102 ni ,aidnI fo knaB evreseR eht sah eh ,srotoM ataT ta sraey ni dekrow sah eh ,GA relmiaD ot rosivdA na sa detnioppa sA .tluaneR epuorG dna eht ni seettimmoc lareves dna noitamrofnI eht fo nosrepriahC sa devres gnisaercni htiw selor dleh feihC sti sa puorG subriA eht ,euneveR fo tnemtrapeD eht ,revoR dnaL raugaJ fo OEC edarT ,ymonocE fo yrtsiniM sronrevoG yrtsudnI ygolonhceT noitacinummoC seitilibisnopser xelpmoc dna )’OOC‘( reciffO gnitarepO .ecnaniF fo yrtsiniM fo sdraob eht sriahc eh sah atihsamaY .yrtsudnI dna TI rof ydob edart xepa eht ,MOCSSAN dna ssorca stcejorp yek reviled ot puorG eht fo rebmem a dna lartneC eht sa denoitcnuf eH seinapmoc puorg RLJ rojam suoirav ni ecneirepxe hcir si narakesardnahC rM .aidnI ni smrif secivres dna elciheV regnessaP .eettimmoC evitucexE morf renoissimmoC ecnaligiV revoR dnaL raugaJ gnidulcni ,gnireenigne ,ngised fo saera ssenisub laretalib s’aidnI fo rebmem evitca na ssenisuB elciheV laicremmoC .9102 enuJ ot 5102 enuJ dnaL raugaJ ,KU ,detimiL tnempoleved dna hcraeser .napaJ dna ailartsuA ,KU ,ASU gnidulcni smurof .stinU dna KU ,clP evitomotuA revoR fo tnempoleved gnidulcni fo saera suoirav ni ecneirepxe hcir sah eH sgnidloH revoR dnaL raugaJ suomonotua ,selcihev cirtcele dna lateicos ,snoitarepo ,ygolonhcet ,ssenisub KU ,detimiL rehto dna ssenisub evird .srettam ecnanrevog .seigolonhcet evitomotua fo noitaroproC elibomotuA • etavirP snimmuC ataT • detimiL )aidnI( stcudorP LCC •
LIN
LIN
detimiL etavirP snoS ataT • dleh spihsrotceriD detimiL aoG .detimiL detimiL seirotarobaL s’iviD • detimiL leetS ataT • seinapmoc rehto ni etavirP snimmuC ataT • noitcurtsnoC ihcatiH ataT • detimiL seirtsudnI ecnaileR • detimiL ynapmoC sletoH naidnI ehT • ngierof gnidulcxe( detimiL etavirP ynapmoC yrenihcaM detimiL secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT • )seinapmoc srotoM olopocraM ataT • .detimiL detimiL ynapmoC rewoP ataT ehT • detimiL .detimiL seigolonhceT ataT • detimiL stcudorP remusnoC ataT • noitadnuoF SCT • detimiL slacimehC ataT •

--- Page 364 ---
Integrated Report (1-67) Statutory Reports (68-169) Financial Statements (170-367) Resilience and Rebound | 395 hgaW hsiriG kehcstuB retneuG yradwohC V ujarasoK érolloB yrreihT atihsamaY okihustiM narakesardnahC
N
sralucitraP etavirP snimmuC ataT • – detimiL srotoM ataT • – detimiL srotoM ataT •
LIN
detimiL srotoM ataT • noitanimoN fo rebmeM - detimiL srotoM ataT • /spihsrebmeM tiduA fo rebmeM – detimiL ’sredlohekatS fo rebmeM ;eettimmoC tiduA fo rebmeM ,ytefaS fo rebmeM – eettimmoC noitarenumeR dna fo spihsnamriahC eettimmoC ;eettimmoC pihsnoitaleR laicoS etaroproC dna ytilibaniatsuS dna htlaeH fo rebmeM – detimiL etavirP snoS ataT • ssorca seettimmoC noitaroproC elibomotuA • dna htlaeH ,ytefaS eettimmoC ytilibisnopseR ksiR dna ;eettimmoC dna eettimmoC noitarenumeR dna noitanimoN gnidulcxe( seinapmoc rebmeM – detimiL aoG fo ;eettimmoC ytilibaniatsuS )aidnI( stcudorP
LCC
• .eettimmoC tnemeganaM ytilibisnopseR laicoS etaroproC fo namriahC )seinapmoc ngierof dna noitanimoN fo laicoS etaroproC tiduA fo rebmeM – detimiL eettimmoC eettimmoC noitarenumeR eettimmoC ytilibisnopseR eettimmoC noitanimoN fo rebmeM - detimiL leetS ataT • latipaC fo namriahC dna tnemeganaM ksiR dna seirotarobaL s’iviD • namriahC dna eettimmoC noitarenumeR dna eettimmoC tnemtsevnI .eettimmoC tiduA fo rebmeM – detimiL .draoB eht fo eettimmoC evitucexE fo noitcurtsnoC ihcatiH ataT • ,noitasnepmoC ;eettimmoC – detimiL secivreS ycnatlusnoC ataT • ynapmoC yrenihcaM dna noitanimoN ytilibisnopseR laicoS etaroproC fo namriahC namriahC - detimiL etavirP ;eettimmoC noitarenumeR fo eettimmoC evitucexE dna eettimmoC .eettimmoC noitarenumeR fo sredlohekatS dna dna noitanimoN fo rebmeM ,draoB eht - detimiL seigolonhceT ataT • eettimmoC pihsnoitaleR eettimmoC noitarenumeR dna noitanimoN fo rebmeM seirtsudnI ecnaileR • – detimiL ynapmoC sletoH naidnI ehT • .eettimmoC noitarenumeR fo rebmeM – detimiL noitarenumeR dna noitanimoN fo rebmeM namuH ;eettimmoC tiduA .eettimmoC noitanimoN ,secruoseR rebmeM - detimiL ynapmoC rewoP ataT ehT • ;noitarenumeR dna eettimmoC noitarenumeR dna noitanimoN fo pihsnoitaleR ’sredlohekatS eht fo eettimmoC evitucexE fo namriahC dna ksiR dna ;eettimmoC .draoB eettimmoC tnemeganaM fo rebmeM - detimiL stcudorP remusnoC ataT • .eettimmoC noitarenumeR dna noitanimoN fo rebmeM - detimiL slacimehC ataT • eettimmoC noitarenumeR dna noitanimoN htiw pihsnoitaleR .ynapmoC eht fo lennosreP laireganaM yeK / rotceriD yna ot detaler toN yeK/srotceriD rehto lennosreP laireganaM eht ni dleh serahs fo .oN fles yb rehtie ynapmoC
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
LIN
000,00,2 sisab laicifeneb a no ro nosrep rehto yna rof refer esaelp ,deviecer seef gnittis/nward noitarenumer dna raey eht gnirud srotceriD evoba eht yb dednetta seettimmoC/draoB eht fo sgniteem fo rebmun eht gnidrager sliated roF .tropeR launnA eht fo trap gnimrof tropeR ecnanrevoG etaroproC eht dna tropeR ’sdraoB eht ot

--- Page 365 ---
NOTES

--- Page 366 ---
[EMPTY PAGE]